 ICPC RECRUITMENT The Independent Corrupt Practices Commission is a Federal Government Commission that was established under the direction of Ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo on the 29th September, 2000. Corruption has impede economic growth, destabilized self-governing organization, instability of government structure, poverty exacerbates, weaken welfare of the pubic due to the listed havoc caused by corruption, the inauguration of Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) was mandated in Nigeria.  The sole reason for the existence of corruption is to enhance bribery thereby impairing electoral procedures, distorting the legal rule, through wrecking the foundation of democratic institutions. Candidates are urged to fulfill the following requirements in order to be selected and be part of ICPC: In order to be qualified and be part of ICPC, you have to note of the following instruction carefully: After the closing date for application, candidates are urged to check their emails from time to time because ICPC recruitment will notify candidates who met the required qualification in respect to the applied position through registered emails. Shortlisted candidates are expected to do a medical test from any government hospital in order to be sure of their health and physical strength before the final selection. A computer-based aptitude test, online assessment, and a written assessment test will be used to qualify shortlisted candidates for an oral interview. Candidates are advised to be free from criminal issues because this could lead to employment revoke. Lastly, candidates are urged to download two referee forms which are to be filled by recognized people in the society and submitted during screening. The salary pattern for all government agencies is similar, such that salaries are based on grade level or rank in order to sustain orderliness. Based on grade level, employees of ICPC are been paid, the following is a list of some grade levels with their salary before deduction. Grade Level 8 Phase 1 N888,956 per year Grade Level 8 Step 2 N900,071 per year Grade level 7 step 1 N483,353 per year ICPC (Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission) was primarily established to oversee and inspect any case of corruption and prosecuting offender(s) in respect to their cases, analyzing and implementing the penalty of corrupt practice and any other related offences in order to eradicate corruption in Nigeria, also enlightening the citizens on and against corrupt practices and any other related offences and in order to enlist and facilitate support of the public to eliminate corruption in Nigeria. Vision To build a country free from corrupt practices and any other related offences. Mission Eliminating corrupt practices through lawful enforcement and preventive measures Conclusion: ICPC recruitment is recruiting eligible and interested candidates to apply for different position in the agency. In view of your application, candidates are advised not to pay anyone for selection. Attending to the above instructions and evaluation of your application to suit your qualifications will give you an opportunity to work in ICPC.