The Civil Defence, Correctional, Fire and Immigration Services Board (CDCFIB)will be engaging in a massive recruitment for the Nigeria immigration service. Here are what you should take note of as you apply…. The Nigerian Immigration Service is a government agency entrusted with the sole duty of immigration management.  The Nigerian Immigration Agency just like other government parastatals has witnessed significant changes since its inception, starting from its extraction from the Nigerian Police Force (NPF) in the year 1958. As at the time of its inception, it was referred to as Immigration Department and was headed by Chief Federal Immigration Officer (CFIO) in the person of Mr. EH Harrison being the first CIFO to man its leadership. This agency was saddled with the sole responsibility of migration management in Nigeria. The organization has seen itself grown progressively to what it is as at today, haven started with Visa and Business Sections Intending applicant should bear in mind its vision and mission statement, while applying. And in other to stand a chance being selected intending applicant must Applicants with any of the following physical challenges need not to apply: Note that due to the rigor of the physical exercise in the recruitment process, women with pregnancy need not to apply The method of Nigerian immigration service recruitment is usually through its online portal. Applicants are expected to access the recruitment portal through www.nisrecruitment.org.ng. Applicants are most importantly advised to ensure they printout referees and security clearance form, which must be completely filled and made available for submission during screening. Applicants are usually advised to make submission online within four (4) weeks of publication of job notice as applications after this said date or breach of application procedure will certainly not be welcomed. Upon registration and verification of applicants, successful candidates are usually informed of their application status through: are published on the agency’s official website, since the registration process is online. It is usually a ritual for government agency to make public the list of successful candidates. Successful candidate would be required to pass a medical fitness test, conducted from a government or military hospital; this is to be sure of their physical and health stability before the final selection process. More so, candidate would be required to be free from bankruptcy cases, theft and must not be involved in unresolved criminal cases. To conclude with, candidate are strictly advised to download a printout referees and security clearance form which must be completely filled and made available for submission during screening as clearly state in the method of application. There is usually a computer based test conducted for short listed candidates, and appropriate time and date for the test is usually communicated to such individuals privately prior to the exam date. The principal reason that gave birth to Nigerian Immigration Services, according to the act establishing it was the need to regulate and control the movement of individuals entering and leaving the country, through: VISION STATEMENT To be a modern, effective and efficient Immigration Service, manned by well trained and motivated workforce MISSION To strengthen the security of Nigeria through proactive and efficient border security and migration management. Just like most government agencies, the salary structure of Nigerian Immigration Services is not made available to public domains, however here are speculated salary structures based on their ranks. The first rank “Passport Officers” get’s the least salary ranging from N30,000 and above, while “Controller General Immigration Service” which is the highest rank get up to three million naira per annum. On an average scale, the current salary of Nigerian Immigration Service is about two million naira. CONCLUSION Just like most government agencies, Nigerian Immigration Service recruitment is completely and absolutely free of charge. And its method of application is strictly online through its official website as stated. The agency’s recruitment process is without doubt one of the most transparent, and strictly adhering to their recruitment requirements and procedure will certainly boost your chances of getting recruited.