WAEC Recruitment is here, a massive recruitment has been concluded hence The required educational qualifications and employment details will be revealed here on this page. Take your time and read through carefully before applying the necessary steps  The West African Examination Council invites qualified applicants to fill the vacancies in the Nigeria National office of the council. Established in 1952, the West African Examination Council is regarded as West Africa’s most prominent examination board established by the law to ascertain and decide the examinations attested in the interest of the public in all Anglophone(English-speaking) West African countries. The West African Examination Council is responsible for conducting examinations and awarding of certificates proficient enough to be compared to the standards of the equivalent international examining boards. The council is mandated to as expected: Vision To be a standardized examination agency inculcating value and morals to the educational goals of its stakeholders. Mission To remain Africa’s leading examining body, providing distinctive and reliable educational assessment, encouraging academic and moral values and enhancing sustainable human resource development and international co-operation. Application requirements: Interested and qualified candidates are to visit the official application website, recruitment.waec.com.ng and click on registration button, fill in the form and click on register. Once completed, a verification code will be sent to the registered email address. Verify your account with the code sent to your email, once verified, enter login details and click on sign in. Locate the vacancy page to view the list of the available positions. On the vacancy page, click on apply for this position on your qualified vacancy. Then fill and upload all the necessary information and credentials and print out a confirmation slip. WAEC recruitment application is online and therefore candidates who successfully met the requirements would be notified via their registered email addresses. Shortlisted candidates would be, pertinent to do a medical fitness test from a government or military hospital and as well be free of any theft and cases of bankruptcy. Successful candidates would be required to provide three guarantors from reputable people or establishments. Salary scale of WAEC The gender distribution of the WAEC was shown to be 60% female and 40% male. The following roles show that the average salary of a WAEC official is 267, 725 thousand naira with tax included. Note: Applicants are to select positions most suitable to their qualifications and should take note of the scanned document size limit. Candidates are advised to abstain from multiple applications as this could lead to automatic disqualification. WAEC recruitment is free and straight to apply, candidates are also advised to not pay for a selection. Conclusion The West African Examination Council is recruiting for suitable candidates to fill the position of the available vacancies in the council. Recruitment into the council is a transparent process as you should abstain from fraudster who request money from applicants for placements. Adhering to instructions and providing necessary documents fitting to the displayed positions would grant you a chance into becoming one of the council staff.