NDIC Recruitment 2020/2021 Latest Application Form Portal www.ndic.gov.ng Apply for the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) via the recruitment link in this article. The Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) is an independent insurance company that was established to enhance the banking sector from fluctuation in order to safeguard the interest of creditors, shareholders and depositors. Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation was incorporated on 15th June, 1988 under the Nigeria Ministry of Finance. Being a member of the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria, the NDIC assists the Central Bank of Nigeria to oversee banking institutions and also reporting to the Federal Ministry of Finance. For you to get selected and be to be part of NDIC, you are advised to follow the standby requirements: The NDIC application is always done online, applicants who met the required qualifications are will be notified after thorough verification has been done through their email addresses and phone numbers that was used for the application. As a routine for every government agency recruitment, successful candidates are expected to do a medical fitness test from any government hospital to confirm the health and physical strength of the applicant before the final selection. Candidates are urged to be free from any financial issues such as theft, fraud, bankruptcy, and should not be involved in any criminal case. The last but not the least applicants are expected to download two referee forms which are to be filled by recognized people in the society. The Salary pattern of Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation is much related to the salary pattern of other Federal Government agencies, NDIC compensate her staffs at the end of month almost like every other white-collar profession. Obviously, salary paid is depending on the rank, this information below is collated by employees from the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) to show different rank with their salaries: In order to be selected into NDIC, you have to take note of the following carefully: Take note of the following if you want to get selected into the NIMASA: Make sure all the required documents are available Candidates are urged to apply for only one position as multiple registrations would lead to automatic disqualification. Application is free and simple and all applicants are urged to not pay anyone in order to be selected. NDIC was established mainly to secure the interest of depositor, shareholders, creditors by overseeing the security and stability of banking institutions in Nigeria. The Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) assures payment to depositors, rendering assistance to insured company in concern of depositor, especially, where payment suspension is threatened, in order to avoid damage to the public assurance in the banking system. Vision To become one of the world-class Deposit Insurer in the world Mission To insure depositors and contribute to the strength of the financial structure through productive supervision of insured institutions, also, providing financial and technical assistance to qualified insured institutions, and also, encourage payment of guaranteed funds. Conclusion: NDIC recruitment is recruiting interested and qualified candidates to apply for the vacancies opened in the agency, application into the agency is a free and stress-free. Following the above instructions and evaluating your application to suit your qualifications will give you an opportunity to work in NDIC.