Lagos State Government massive Recruitment is here In this article, you will learn about Lagos State Government job description, application skills, requirements and qualifications. Interested applicant should follow the lead outline below for successful application Lagos State, established in 1967, consists of a government who regulate the affairs of the state ministries.  Lagos State Government, through the Teaching Service Commission, TESCOM, has indulged on the process for the recruitment of qualified secondary school teachers into schools across the state. The decision under the present administration of the State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, was a part of a strategy to boost the capacity of secondary education across the state to compete against the standards of the 21st century global education. Successful candidates would be dispatched into the Lagos State Post Primary Teaching Service. Vision To have qualified standards of educational sector in tandem with the global educational sector. Mission The administration plans to focus and channel more funds into the educational sector to limit unemployment while chasing to compete with world class educational system. Candidates are to visit the official recruitment portal www.tescomjobs.lagosstate.gov.ng and click on the registration link. Create and verify your account and thereafter sign in to proceed with your application. Fill the required information, locate the vacancy suitable to your qualifications and select the subject of your choice after which you click on the apply button and proceed to print the confirmation slip which will be a prerequisite for interview. The Lagos State Government recruitment notifies candidates who met the application requirements after successfully registering on the portal through their respective registered email addresses and phone numbers. Shortlisted candidates are advised to abstain from anybody who requests money for getting selected as the board will never ask or request for money from candidates in any stage of the recruitment process. Successful candidates are to provide medical fitness certificate from a government or military hospital and as well be free of any charges of theft and bankruptcy. Candidates are required to also provide recommendation letters from reputable past employers and institutions as these would be required during screening. In Lagos State, just like every other states, teachers like other professions are compensated at the end of every month. Following figures on Consolidated Public Service Salary Structure (CONPSS) The average salary of a Lagos teacher is #59,000 including other benefits and allowances. Entry level staff in the service earns about #46,000 While a senior level staff earns about #81,000 Some of the benefits of a teacher includes: Teaching profession is the noblest of all profession because they are responsible in breeding other highly lucrative professions, jobs and careers. Teachers play an important and exceptional role in the formative years of a child, development and being well-behaved citizens of a nation. Note Lagos State government recruitment is done online and as doing, the board will never request for money at any stages of this recruitment. Applicants are advised to apply for only one position as multiple applications will lead to automatic disqualification. Conclusion: Lagos State government recruitment is calling for qualified candidates to fit into the state’s educational sector as this recruitment is a free and straightforward application. Following the instructions and considering your application to suit your qualifications will be a leading step to your teaching career in a government parastatal.