NECO Recruitment The National Examination Council(NECO) was established for the main purpose for conducting various internal and external examination around the country. The exams consist of the Senior Secondary Certificate Examination(SSCE), General Certificate Examination(GCE), National Common Entrance Examination(NCEE)and the Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE). However, the National Examination Council recruits both Nigerian graduates and undergraduate every year to reduce the risk of unemployment in the country. Mission The mission of the National Examination Council is to promote examinations with worthy and standard results around the nation. Vision The vision of the National Examination Council is to be a major assessment leader around the globe. In order to apply for the National Examination Council recruitment, Candidates must have the following requirements. Furthermore, applicants must be creative and be willing to adapt to the new environment. Also, must be able to uplift the core values of the agency which is dedication, hard work, and focus The National Examination Council shortlisted candidates would be released shortly after the application process. Candidates would be invited for an interview and it is a must you attend if you want to get the job. To have an edge over other applicants, it is advisable you do deep research on the agency before going for the interview. Also, it is important you do not show your nervousness during the interview and be confident all through. At the same time, candidates must go to the interview centre with the necessary documents and must be punctual to avoid disqualification. It is perfectly normal for job seekers to inquire if there will be any benefits while working for NECO. There are numerous benefits of working in NECO, the benefits include a good work environment, good people to work with, teamwork and cooperation. In fact, working with NECO will give you room to explore the country while working, you’ll also be subjected to various training that will help you develop personally. Well, it is seen that it will really be a great achievement to work with NECO and you will still have other numerous benefits to enjoy. Now, check out the salary structure of the National Examination Council. The salary structure of NECO is based on the job specification and the position of employees. Form the reviews of past and present employees, it can be deduced that the National Examination Council really pays its employees very well. The salaries are never delayed and are paid when due. Working with NECO will even permit you to get some miscellaneous fee that is not part of your basic salary. Although, this is peculiar to a position in the agency. Final Thoughts. The National Examination Council is responsible for conducting national entrance exams around the country. It helps to assess the examination standards and relay reports to the Minister Of Education. Going through the recruitment process of NECO is a very easy process, just make sure you read the above guidelines and follow them. You should also know that adequate care must be taken while applying for any opening to avoid disqualification.