    FEDERAL TEACHERS Recruitment www.ubec.gov.ng The Federal Teachers’ Scheme was established to oversee and provide quality education in all primary and junior secondary level across all states in Nigeria. This scheme was enthroned in 2006 under the directive of the Federal Government. The Federal Teachers’ scheme it’s an intervention to supervise public teacher recruitments to deliver effective teaching skills so as to improve the quality of primary and junior secondary education in Nigeria, equipping young graduate to have adequate and full practical teaching skills, recruiting graduate of Nigeria Certificate in Education.  Vision To improve the quality of public basic education system in Nigeria in order to become one of the leading education system in the world Mission To supervise and monitor the basic education system in all thirty-six states in Nigeria so as to advance and enhance the educational system. The Federal Teachers’ scheme opens vacancies for eligible and unemployed youth who have Nigeria Certificate in Education (NCE), to teach in public primary and junior secondary school for two years. So as to be selected and be part of the Federal Teachers’ Scheme, you have follow these guidelines:  Since the recruitment is done online, applicants who met the requirements for the Federal Teachers’ Scheme recruitment will be notified through their registered email addresses, phone number and official website of State Universal Basic Education Board. Successful applicants are expected to undergo medical test from any government to confirm the medical status of the applicants as the normal routine before the final stage. Candidates are expected to be free and not be involved in any financial and criminal activities such as fraud, fake certificate, theft or any criminal activities. Lastly, you are advised to download two referee forms which are to be filled by recognized people in the society. Just like every Federal agency, salary structure depends on the grade level. Federal Teachers’ Scheme formulates the list of employee eligible for payment. The salary average for every teacher after tax ranges from N20,000 to N80,000 per month depending on the grade level in the system. Teachers at Level 8 salaries varies from N47,000 to N70,000 per month. NOTE: CONCLUSION The Federal Teachers’ Scheme is recruiting qualified and unemployed youth who is interested in teaching career to teach in public basic schools. In order for you to be selected for the recruitment you have to follow the above guidelines and adhere to it. Selection into the Federal Teachers’ Scheme will be based on your qualification and you are advised not to pay anyone for selection.