NIGERIA POLICE FORCE RECRUITMENT The Nigeria Police Force is the primary law enforcement agency, it was established in the year 1930 in Nigeria. The law enforcement agency was established under the act of Section 214 of the 1999 Nigerian Constitution. The Nigeria Police Force is in operation across the entire states federation and also the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), also, the supervision and control of the law enforcement agency is controlled by the Inspector General of Police. The Nigeria Police Force is in charge of the public affairs, the agency ensure public orderliness and safety. NPF is in charge of enforcing the laws governing the nation so as to prevent crimes among citizens, securing the lives and properties of the masses, arresting of offenders who go against the rules and regulation of the federation and also charging offenders of the law to court in respect of their crimes so as to eradicate crimes and also protecting the lives of the masses. Vision To build a safe and secure environment for residents of Nigeria so as to enhance the economy growth of Nigeria Mission Equipping all aspiring officers with essential skills needed to secure and protect the public lives so as develop Nigeria’s economy and also the recruitment provides more jobs for Nigeria youth who are eligible and qualified. In doing so, crimes rates in Nigeria due to unemployment will be reduced to some extent. The following requirements are needed in order to be qualified for NPF recruitment process: Shortlisted candidates who met all the requirements after the online application process will be notified through their registered email addresses, phone numbers and national newspaper. Shortlisted candidates would be required to undergo a medical fitness test from a government or military hospital as a normal procedure in all government agencies so as to be sure of their physical and health strength before the final stage. Successful applicants must not have any record of criminal cases and financial issues such as theft, fraud. Lastly, applicants are to submit referee form which is expected to be download from the website and duly filled by reputable people in the society. The salary pattern of NPF is based on rank or position in the agency. The following are the list of some ranks with their salaries per month: NOTE: CONCLUSION Nigeria Police Force is recruiting interested and eligible candidates to apply for the available vacancies in the agency. Candidates will be selected based on the above requirements stated, so you are advised to adhere to all instruction. You are advised to beware of fraudster that claims you have to pay before selection.