TETFund Recruitment 2020/2021 Form Portal | www.tetfund.gov.ng Are you interested in joining the Tertiary Education Trust Fund ? If yes, ensure you read this post to the end to get everything needed to stand a chance of being shortlisted The Tertiary Education Trust Fund was formerly called Education Trust Fund (ETF), it was established on January, 1993 under the administration of Late Ex-president Ibrahim Babangida, when the education system in Nigeria was in disarray and collapsing, low teaching drive in lecturers and teacher, lack of conducive environment for students and lecturers. Because of the collapsing of the education structure, the Federal Government implement 2% tax on all organization, these funds was used to restore the collapsing education system, construct a well conducive area for teaching, building moldy infrastructure, recuperate outdated facilities apart from this; increasing the morale in lecturers, lecturers’ growth, advanced teaching system. The primary reason why the Education Trust Fund was replaced to be Tertiary Education Trust Fund was due to the cumbersome activities done in operating and disbursing Education Funds across all levels of public education, this directive was inaugurated in May, 2011. The inauguration of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund led to sustainability and advancement of the public tertiary level in Nigeria. The following includes some roles of TETFUND in Nigeria? Vision Providing an effective educational system to all public tertiary institution in Nigeria Mission Through management of education tax and effective project management to maintain, improve and advanced pubic tertiary education in Nigeria. For you to stand a chance and be to be part of TETFUND, you are urged to follow these requirements carefully: Applicants are advised to always check their mail since the application is done online, TETFUND recruitment will notify candidates who met the required qualifications after complete verification either through their registered email addresses or phone numbers. Shortlisted applicants are expected to be of good behavior and also to do a medical test from any government hospital to ascertain the health and physical strength of the applicant before the final stage. During the process of application and until the final selection, candidates are advised to stay away from anyone who request money from people in order to be selected by the board. Candidates are advised not be involve in any financial issues such as theft, fraud, and also in any criminal case. The TETFUND salary pattern is the same with all government agencies; salaries are paid based on your rank in the agency, this is done to maintain orderliness. Based on ranking system, employees of TETFUND are been paid, and the salary differs from N120,000 – N250,000 based on the level. Note of the following instruction carefully, in order to be qualified for TETFUND: Conclusion: Heeding to the above instructions and evaluation of your application to suit your qualifications will give you an opportunity to work in TETFUND. Recruitment into the agency is at no cost, eligible and interested candidates are expected to apply online for various positions. In view of your application, candidates are advised not to pay anyone for selection.