CAC Recruitment 2020/2021 Application Form Portal | www.cac.gov.nged This guide is about CAC recruitment, so, read carefully to understand properly and get the vital information in this article. The Corporate Affairs Commission is an independent commission inducted in 1990 by the Companies and Allied Matters Act, the commission was enthroned to oversee the establishment and Administration of Companies in Nigeria.  Before the establishment of the Corporate Affairs Commission, a sector under the Federal Ministry of Commerce and Tourism called Company Registry was in charge of all registration and administration of Company registration. This former Company registry was abandoned due to its incapability and ineffectiveness For you to stand a chance and be to be part of CAC, you are urged to follow these requirements carefully: Applicants are advised to always check their mail since the application is done online, the CAC recruitment will notify applicants who met the required qualifications after comprehensive verification either through their registered email addresses or phone numbers. As a tradition for all government agency recruitment, shortlisted candidates are expected to do a medical test from any government hospital in order to be sure of the health and physical strength of the applicant before the final selection. Candidates are advised not be involve in any financial issues such as theft, fraud, and also in any criminal case. Lastly, applicants are advised to download two referee forms which are to be filled by recognized people in the society. Just like every other government corporation, the CAC salary pattern is much related, the Corporation rewards employees at the end of every month. The Standard salaries for Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) is N333,375. In order to be qualified and be part of CAC, you have to note of the following instruction carefully: CAC came into existence primarily to supervise and oversee the establishment, incorporation, administration and wrapping up of Companies, also function in order to bring into existence and maintain companies registry and offices in the entire thirty-six (36) states in Nigeria, properly and sufficiently equipped to discharge its duties under the Act or any law. Vision Providing an effective company registration and administration services, in order to be among one of the world-class Company’s registry Mission To be committed to deliver registration and regulatory services to meet the intention of stakeholders for the benefit of the economy. Conclusion: CAC recruitment is recruiting qualified and interested candidates to apply for the opened vacancies, application into the corporation is a free and straightforward. Attending to the above instructions and evaluation of your application to suit your qualifications will give you an opportunity to work in CAC.