NDDC Recruitment 2020/2021 Application Form & Guide |Portal | www.nddc.gov.ng The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) was established 20 years ago by Olusegun Obasanjo with the main purpose of developing the Niger area endowed with crude oil. It helps to maintain and develop the region economically and socially. Every year, NDDC recruits unemployed graduates and undergraduates so as to reduce the rate of unemployment in the country and generate income for the masses Mission The mission of the Niger Delta Development Commission is to facilitate rapid and fast development of the Niger Delta area socially, politically and ecologically. Vision The Vision Of the Niger Delta Development Commission is to provide a long-lasting solution to the social and economic challenges of the Niger Delta area. To be eligible for the recruitment process, candidates must have the following requirements Furthermore, NDDC requires candidates to have either one or all of the following certificate; WAEC/NECO/GCE certificate with not less than 4 credits including the English language at one sitting or at least 5 credits at two sittings, A B.Sc certificate or Master’s degree certificate/HND/OND Certificate in relevant courses from any reputable institution. The NDDC shortlisted candidates list would be released after a thorough application process. Only the qualified candidates will be invited for an aptitude test that will take place at a communicated date. Candidates are advised to check the website regularly to receive updates about the process. It should be noted that NDDC application form is free so you don’t have to pay anyone to apply. Also, candidates must apply for only one job position as multiples can lead to disqualification. It is perfectly normal for job seekers to be curious about the salary structure of any job position they want to apply for. Well, the salary structure of NDDC is based on the position of an employee and the job specification just like most organization. Also, as it is known that most oil corporation in Nigeria pays its employees a huge sum of money, the NDDC is not an exception. Seeing the salaries above, then there’s no doubt that the NDDC really pays its employees handsomely. However, working with the NDDC also expose employees to numerous and tantalising benefits. There are various benefits of working with the NDDC and they include; a good work environment, adequate financial packages and teamwork with cooperation. In fact, the employees of NDDC are entitled to a various allowance from the federal government e.g pensioners pay, and other gratitude allowance. Also, working with NDDC will subject you to various training that will develop your personal and skill abilities. You will even get the chance to explore and be recognised by your peers if you work with the NDDC. Final Thoughts The Niger Delta Development Commission is an agency that is responsible for maintaining and regulating the oil bank present in the Niger Delta region. The agency recruits Nigerian citizens within the age of 18-30 years annually. Going through the recruitment process is not hard nor is it stressful, applicants just have to follow the instructions above. The above contains all you need to know about the NDDC recruitment process and how to apply for its job openings successfully.