FERMA Recruitment 2020/2021 Form Portal |recruitment procedures |www.ferma.gov.ng The Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA) is a Federal Government Agency established under the Federal Ministry of Works with the consent of Ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo and National Assembly in the year 2002. The Federal Roads Maintenance Agency is the only Road Maintenance Agency that was inaugurated to oversee the maintenance of all Federal roads in all the thirty-six states. FERMA was established to supervise the constructions and development of highways, and also to create and join the entire thirty-six (36) states together to aid easy and safe transportation to all citizens of Nigeria thereby advancing the economy growth of the country. Vision Becoming the number one leading Road Maintenance Organization in Nigeria that will improve the usability of the Federal Road thereby advancing the economy of the country Mission To improve the development of all federal roads by supervising and regulating all strategies to ensure a safe and useable highways In order to be selected to be part of FERMA, you need to follow the standby requirements: Applicants who met the above requirements for the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency recruitment will be notified after a thorough verification of credentials through their registered email addresses and phone number. Candidates who are shortlisted are advised to undergo medical test from any government hospital and also drug test with the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) to ascertain that such candidates is free from drugs and, medically fit prior to the final selection. It’s mandatory for all shortlisted candidates to take a computer-based examination which will be conducted by JAMB, and also expected to come along with their confirmation slip. Candidates are advised to stay away from any financial and criminal issues as this could lead to employment revoke. Lastly, candidates are urged to download two referee forms which are to be filled by recognized people in the society. The Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA) rewards members of its staffs at the end of the every month, just like every other profession. Salaries are paid depend on ranking system in the agency at the end of every month. You are advised to note of the following instruction carefully, in order to be selected into Federal Roads Maintenance Agency: Conclusion The Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA) recruitment is recruiting for eligible and qualified candidates to occupy the available position in this agency, also applicants are note that the agency will not request for money at any point of registration up till the final selection. Application into the agency is free and straightforward, following the instructions and providing necessary documents fitting in respect to the required qualification would grant you an opportunity into the agency.