NIMASA Recruitment 2020 application form is here! The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency have successfully commenced enlistment into various positions. The required educational qualifications and employment details will be revealed on this page  The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), focused on the enthronement of worldwide prescribed procedures in the arrangement of oceanic administrations in Nigeria. They are the principal administrative and promotional sea organization. NIMASA was inaugurated on the 1st August 2006 through the coming together of two parastatals under the Federal Ministry of Transportation, these were the Joint Maritime Labour Industrial Council and National Maritime Authority. To stand a chance in getting selected to be part of the NIMASA, you need to keep standby the following requirements: Since the NIMASA registration process is online, on ending the application and after much verification of the applicants, the selected candidates would be notified through their registered email and phone numbers, and the names would always be published on the agency’s website. As a ritual for every government agency recruitment, shortlisted candidates would be required to do a medical fitness test which can be from a government or military hospital to ascertain the physical and health stability of the candidate before the final selection. Candidates would also be required to be free of theft and bankruptcy cases, and should not be involved in any unresolved criminal case. Finally, candidates are required to download two referee forms which are to be duly filled by reputable people in the society. The NIMASA Salary Structure is very similar to the salary structure of other Federal Government agencies. NIMASA is an agency under the auspices of the Federal Ministry of Transportation. Like every other agency under the administration of the Ministry of Transportation, NIMASA has a united pay scale. The NIMASA salary system is dependent on the grade level of staff and is paid in confirming with the Consolidated Research and Allied institutes (CONRAISS) salary scale. NIMASA makes up one of the top 100 fundamental government parastatals and is instrumental in the financial development of the country. Subsequently, in spite of certain troubles, the office is by and by perceived as a decent work environment. Take note of the following if you want to get selected into the NIMASA: Get all your necessary and required documents ready Candidates are advised to apply for just one position as multiple applied would lead to automatic disqualification. Application is free as you are advised to not pay anyone for getting selected. NIMASA came into existence principally for the purpose of overseeing the maritime safety seafarer’s standards and security, also overseeing shipping regulation, maritime labor, the advancement of commercial shipping, and also for the regulation of cabotage activities, prevention of pollution and control in the maritime condition. The agency is also responsible for executing the International Maritime Organization (IMO) and the International Labor Organization (ILO) conventions. They also seek after the advancement of transportation and administrative issues identifying with dealer delivery and sailors. Other things they do include the following: To be the Leading Maritime Administration in Africa propelling Nigeria’s Global Maritime objectives. To accomplish and support sheltered, secure delivery, cleaner seas and improved sea limit in accordance with the best worldwide practices towards Nigeria’s monetary turn of events Conclusion: NIMASA is open exclusively for engineering graduates from both universities and polytechnics. The recruitment into the NIMASA is a free and straight process. The agency is undoubtedly one of the transparent agency in the federal government as keeping you the rules and following the instructions would give your a chance to be a part of the agency.