FRSC Recruitment 2020/2021/Federal Road Safety Corps Registration at www.frsc.gov.ng Portal dreaming of becoming an employee of Federal Road Safety Corp? You can now actialise your dreams now by applying for the The Federal Road Safety Corps also called Road Safety, it is commissioned by the Federal Government to instigate policies and actions on Road Traffic and Safety Management to reduce Road Traffic Accident and create a safe monitoring environment in Nigeria.  Federal Road Safety Corps was established on February 1988 by the National Assembly of Federal Republic of Nigeria, the commission is being conducted in all thirty-six(36) states as well as the Federal Capital Territory(Abuja) which is the headquarter in Nigeria on road traffic and safety management. In order to be selected to be part of FRSC, you need to follow the standard of the following requirements: Applicants must possess a first-class degree from a recognized institution, NYSC certificate Marshal Inspector I: Applicants are expected to have at least a Higher National Diploma(HND) Marshal Inspector II: Applicants must possess Nigeria Certificate of Education(NCE) Marshal Inspector III: Applicants must have National Diploma (ND), Community Health Extension Workers Certificate (CHEW) Application Procedure: Applicants who met the requirements for the Federal Road Safety Corps recruitment will be notified through their email addresses and phone numbers since the application is done online. Shortlisted applicants are to undergo drug tests with the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), and also medical tests from any government hospital to make sure that such an applicant is medically and physically fit before the final selection. Successful applicants are mandated to take a computer-based examination which will be conducted by JAMB, and also expected to come along with a print out of their submitted forms. Shortlisted applicants would be required to be free from any financial issues and also from any unsolved criminal case. The Federal Road Safety Corps rewards members of its staff at the end of the e month, just like every other profession, their salary structure is based on the rank. Following figures on Consolidated Paramilitary Salary Structure (CONPASS), the payroll is ranging from the highest to the lowest rank The Federal Road Safety Corps recruitment is free and simple to apply, applicants are also urged not to pay anyone to get selected. Applicants are to select position most suitable to their qualifications should to fill the form correctly. Candidates are advised to abstain from multiple applications as this could result to automatic disqualification and also applicants are advised not to select more than one position. Federal Road Safety Corps was established primarily to provide safe highways for motorists, pedestrians, cyclists, motorcyclists, and other road users as well as making sure that the roads are safe for transportation, advising the Federal and State Governments, the Federal Capital Territory Administration and other relevant local government agencies on the strategies and device formulated to minimize accidents on the highways, and also, enlightening motorists and the public at large on the significance of discipline on the expressways. They also make sure that motorists, motorcyclists, and any other road users that make use of vehicles as a means of transportation are authorized to use the highways. Vision To eliminate the Road Traffic accident, and develop a secure monitoring environment in Nigeria Mission To oversee, implement, and coordinate all Road Traffic Administration and Safety Management activities through educating motorists and the entire public, prompt rescue services, enhanced vehicle management. Conclusion FRSC recruitment is recruiting for qualified candidates to occupy the available position in this agency as this recruitment is a free and straightforward application. Applicant are advised to stay away from fraudster who request money for selection Following this instruction and providing necessary documents fitting to the displayed position would grant you an opportunity into the agency.