NIPOST RECRUITMENT The Nigerian Postal Service is a government corporation that was established in the year 1987 to oversee and handle transmission of messages or mail items from one place to another in Nigeria. Over 3,000 post offices have been created in Nigeria and over 12,000 employees has been employed to work in NIPOST and also various department such as Commercial Business Units, EMS/Parcel, Financial Services, e-Commerce & Logistics, Mails, Property & Workshop, Counters, and Training department has been created to enhance postal services in Nigeria. The Nigerian Postal Service is responsible for the creation of new post offices, provision of facilities needed, and also equipping new employees for the task across the 36 states in Nigeria. NIPOST determine the number of postage stamps created and how it’s been distributed, offer services on how postal messages are delivered, and also decide and review charges on postal services. Vision Becoming one of the world’s leading market-drive Corporation so as improve postal service in Nigeria. Mission Improving postal services in Nigeria so as to deliver efficient, reliable services to enhance the growth of the economy and to meet the expectation of stakeholders and also creating more jobs opportunity for eligible and qualified youth through the recruitment. Provision of more jobs will reduce the rate of unemployment in Nigeria to an extent. In order to be selected for any position in NIPOST, applicants are advised to posses the following requirements: After the online application process, candidates who met all the requirements will be shortlisted and notified through their registered email addresses, and on the official website of NIPOST. As the normal procedure for all government agencies, shortlisted candidates are required to undergo a medical fitness test from a government hospital to confirm their physical and health status before the final stage. Applicants who are shortlisted are advised not to have any record of criminal cases and financial issues such as theft, fraud, bankruptcy. Lastly, applicants are to submit referee form which is expected to be download from the website and duly filled by reputable people in the society. NIPOST salary is always based on the rank, position or grade level in the agency. The following are the list of some position with their salaries per month: NOTE: CONCLUSION Nigerian Postal Service is recruiting interested and eligible candidates to apply for the available vacancies in the corporation. Selection of applicants into the agency will be free and based on the above requirements stated, so you are advised to adhere to all instruction. You are urged to beware of fraudster that claims you have to pay before selection.