A budget is a financial plan for a defined period, often one year. It may also include planned sales volumes and revenues, resource quantities, costs and expenses, assets, liabilities and cash flows. Companies, governments, families and other organizations use it to express strategic plans of activities or events in measurable terms. It is equally seen as the sum of money allocated for a particular purpose and the summary of intended expenditures along with proposals for how to meet them. It may include a budget surplus, providing money for use at a future time, or a deficit in which expenses exceed income. This is to say that budget is not necessarily the amount of money spent, but the amount intended to be spent, which in most cases are not spent up to that. Since assumption of office in 2015, Gov. Udom Emmanuel has shown a high level of financial intelligence and prudent management skills, chiefly as a result of his background in the financial sector. He has in no small measure brought his sense of financial integrity and accountability into his leadership as the governor of Akwa Ibom State. Till date, his administration has not been found wanting in terms of keeping accurate account of every expenditure done in the state, hence the adoption of annual publication of financial report of the state to be perused and studied by those interested to know how funds are spent, the first of its kind. It goes a long way to show how transparent the governor is, which is equally seen in the way he handles public funds. Even in budgeting, especially in a time like this when the world is battling with economic realities, Gov. Emmanuel has in several occasions been praised for his prudent management of state resources. He has ensured that funds allocated for projects are judiciously handled, hence the lack of incessant supplementary budgets that other governments are known for. Investigative journalists should rather be finding out the actual amount that government spent for a particular item in the yearly appropriation, and not what they intended to spend. Budget is a plan, and not a financial report of expenditure. This is what I expected some self-aclaimed investigative reporters to know. Ignorance should not be wrapped in royal robes, it projects shame Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 