To say that the entrepreneurial vision of the present day Akwa Ibom State government had hoped on some names – like Utibe Akwa – as the carrier of its vision to fruition, is stating the obvious, as the name has become synonymous with entrepreneurial excellence in the State. And given that the governor of Akwa Ibom State, HE, governor Udom Emmanuel, wants the world to see Akwa Ibom differently – as one of the States, not only in Nigeria, but in Africa – that will break the record by becoming fully entrepreneurial through fleets of world view innovations that meet the 21st century demands and global standards, Utibe Akwa perfectly fits into that frame. She is not Steve Jobs. Her name might not even be a buzzword in the league of entrepreneurial poachers of history. But she has what to get out of the world with. With confidence steps, budding ideas of innovations and fierce passion , she steps outside in confidence ; she understands the word entrepreneurship like the back of her hand. Unassumming she appears focus, fixated on her passion to explore to the bare bones, the world of entrepreneurship. She began her journey into the world of entrepreneurship as far back as primary school with unbridled flare for innovation . And had once in an interview with the Guardian News paper revealed that her childhood prepared her for the entrepreneurial strides she makes. Her dream of becoming a CEO which started many years ago finally arrived the shores in 2018 when she incorporated Utytrends Enterprises with the Corporate Affairs Commission. That was a feat that was made possible by a thriving atmosphere stired for entrepreneurship by the Dakkada philosophy of governor Udom Emmanuel. To Utibe Akwa, that must have been a perfect opportunity to seize – and she did! On September 23, 2018, Utibe Akwa made that leapfrogging step to unveil her company (Utytrends Enterprises) to the whorld, with 15 product mix from two product lines of food processing and cosmetology. When she introduced her 3-in-1 Custard (Unik Milky Cutard) in that year, it triggered the existing market to a pomp. Drawing inspiration from the success, high demand and a need to boost nutritional need of consumers, she introduced a a 4-in-1 version of the Custard (Unik Choco Custard) which took the beverage industry by storm, threatening the competitive advantage, market share and strength of existing competitors. While suppprters celebrated the idea as a rare milestone in the entrepreneurial stride of the State , consumers equally bought over 3000 units – but that was her little begining. Like a butterfly stuck in a chrysalis, waiting for the perfect moment, she was waiting for the day she could burst forth and fly away to perch on the basement of fame OR One would say that Utytrends poached into the market like a vexed tigger who had anticipated a chance to devour its prey. Though not on a platter of gold, within a short frame of time, Utibe Akwa has earned a robust but enviable investiture to herself, including: CERTIFICATIONS *Enterprise Development Centre (EDC) of Pan-Atlantic University *Cherie Blaire Foundation for Women an International Body *My Entrepreneurial Goals Programme (MEGP) *R2G Road to Growth Programme, Lagos *Institute of Project Management Professionals (IPMP) LEADERSHIP AND AWARDS *Leadership Gold Award as emerging Entrepreneur by institute of corporate Leadership and Mentorship *Entrepreneurial Excellent Award by Herald Media World *Best Cosmetology Entrepreneur of the Year 2018 by Akwa Ibom State Entrepreneurs *Diamond Winner Umbrella Business Quest *Outstanding youth of the year by save the youth Initiative *Emerging Entrepreneur by Legit Online TV To be Continued… © I. J Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 