Nigeria’s Senate President, Dr. Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan, has commended Akwa Ibom State Governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel for his political tolerance. Dr. Lawan made the commendation last Sunday, while speaking at the 60th birthday celebration and thanksgiving service of the Senator representing Eket Senatorial District, Dr. Akon Eyakenyin, held at Destiny International Mission, Ewet Housing Estate, Uyo. He noted that as a politician Governor Emmanuel “is a decent man, very decent; as a partisan, practicing politician, he is a very tolerant leader.” The Senate President who expressed the view that the politics of the new Nigeria, which he said the 9th Senate stood for, “is defined by how to reach the desired destination in service delivery, devoid of partisanship,” explained that “Governor Emmanuel represents such fresh disposition.” Also speaking, Akwa Ibom State Governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel made public his template for administering the state in the year 2020, saying he would work towards delivering on the completion agenda of his administration rather than getting involved in the politics of succession as canvassed by political gladiators seeking power come 2023. Governor Emmanuel lauded the unprecedented acceptability of  Dr. Ahmad Lawan’s leadership at the National Assembly, describing the 9th Senate as one of the most peaceful in the history of Nigeria’s democracy. He congratulated Senator Akon Eyakenyi on her 60th birthday celebration, commending her for acknowledging God as her source and prayed for God’s help for greater accomplishments in her life. While thanking God for his benevolence, Senator Akon Eyakenyi expressed gratitude to God for her 60-year life journey, her family life, her successful election into the Senate and thanked the Governor and his wife, Martha for their support, saying she remains indebted to the people of the twelve local government areas of the Senatorial District who ensured her emergence and success at the poll. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 