…as Bureau of Technical Matters and Due Process, SSA, SA Project Monitoring visit project sites in the State Part of the eight points agenda of Governor Udom Emmanuel’s adminstration has been the commitment to revolutionizing and consolidating on infrastructural development in Akwa Ibom State. This was evident when a team of Senior Special Assistants, Special Assistants on Project Monitoring, Director Bureau and Technical Matter and Due Process paid an unscheduled visit to different project sites in Uyo and Ikot Ekpene local government area. In the delegation were; Engr MacPherson Okonna FNSE, Director of Engineering Bureau of Technical Matters and Due Process, Akparawa Patrick Udofia,
Adede Isidore Archibong, ObongIwad Godwin Williams, Senior Special Advisers on Project Monitoring, Mr. Jack Essien,
Mr. Ettebong Uko, Special Advisers on Projects Monitoring, Rev Richard Peters, SA on Media.
Others were Engr. Michael Akpan
Engr. Emmanuel Udoh and Mr Ubong Ukpekpe. Some of the sites visited by the team include Uyo/Ikot Ekpene dual carriage way, Ikot Oku Ikono flyover. At the Uyo/Ikot Ekpene dual carriage way which is 1% completion, the foreman, Mr Mfon Ambrose and Mr Christian Joseph, Headman hinted that the major bulk of the work has been completed on the road, noting that currently the company is running electric fittings and putting finishing touches on the road. Speaking to the team and newsmen at the Julius Berger office, Itam, Engr. Bakare Kehinde, Project Sites Manager revealed that the company and the State Government since the commencement of the projects in the state has enjoyed good working relationship as both parties are putting the needed available resources and manpower to ensure the project is completed on agreed date and meet global standard. Kehinde hinted that the State Government has tried in their capacity in releasing funds as at when due which according to him has aided the smooth operation of the ongoing projects carried out by the company. He further revealed that the only thing holding the Uyo/Ikot Ekpene road from being opened for public use is the tie-in between the new and old road which is less than 28 centimeters. He added that as soon as the remaining portion is tied to the existing road linking up to the Ikot Ekpene recreational plaza, the road will be handed over to the government and opened for use. On the challenge facing the company and the ongoing project, Kehinde hinted that the company is working out an alternative measure to build a bigger drainage system to curb flooding around the Uyo/Ikot Ekpene road, assuring a holistic job delivery. He lauded the effort of His Excellency, Governor Udom Emmanuel and the host community for the mutual relationship enjoyed while working on the road. While inspecting the Uyo/Ikot Ekpene road, Engr. Okonna wondered why the road was still closed when nearly 99% of work has been done on the road. He appealed to the contracting company to expedite work on the road so that it can be opened for public consumption. Okonna expressed satisfaction at the pace and quality of job done so far on the road, maintaining that it was advanced and top notch and will serve as a good linkage between neighbouring states. Also, the Senior Special Assistant on Project Monitoring, Akparawa Patrick Udofia on his part while appealing to the company to do the necessary final touches on the road, maintained that the Governor Udom’s completion agenda of turning the state into an economic hive of activities must be reflected on the quality of project done, noting that jobs must be done to meet the specification of the state government. Similarly, Hon. Jack Essien, Mr Eteobong Uko and Pastor Godwin Williams in their separate messages appreciated the state government for the timely release of funds for the actualization of the project. They expressed confidence in the leadership of Governor Udom and sued the company to deliver on the job within the agreed time. Adede Archibong who was also in the delegation commended the governor for other projects done in Ikot Ekpene Senatorial district. He affirmed that the Uyo/Ikot Ekpene road when open will form a nexus of economic activities for the local and other commercial purposes. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 