By Aniekeme Udo, Uyo Pressure is mounting on the Akwa Ibom State Commissioner of Police Imohimi Edgal, for the subtle release of rearrested fugitive Leo Ekpenyong after he was rearraigned at the Magistrate Court in Uyo. Leo Ekpenyong, a lawyer, is standing trial for publication of offensive material, false publication and false statements, that violate several sections of the state internal security law. Ekpenyong had in October last year escaped from police custody after being granted administrative bail by the police under the guise of undergoing medical attention on the premise that he was sick, without making an appearance in court as agreed, warranting his being declared wanted by the police. On Monday morning,  following his rearrest, Leo displayed a weird theatrical countenance in the courtroom, thereby throwing the court into an air of uncertainty on the state of his health. While adjourning the matter for hearing to March 23, 2020, the Presiding Magistrate in charge number MU/182C/2020, ordered that the accused be made to undergo medical examination at a Government Hospital before being remanded in a Nigerian Correctional Service acustody till the adjourned date. The court ruled that, “you the said police officer is hereby commanded to convey the defendant to the said prison and deliver him to the superintendent thereof together with this warrant. “And the superintendent will receive and keep him in his custody till 23rd day of March, and on that day convey him to the Magistrate Court of the Uyo Magisterial district sitting at the Chief Magistrate Court 1 by 9am to be dealt with according to law. The Akwa Ibom State government had petitioned the police on the allegations by Ekpenyong, that Governor Udom Emmanuel bribed the tribunal judges to secure favourable judgements. The state Attorney General and Justice Commissioner, Uwemedimo Nwoko in the petition had urged Ekpenyong to substantiate his claims within seven days on national media or face legal actions. Reporters who went to the state police headquarters at Ikot Akpan Abia confirm that Leo Ekpenyong, accompanied by Barr Imo Akpan were seen at the office of the state commissioner of Police as late as 8pm, finalising arrangement for an alleged escape plan. It was not clear why the said Ekpenyong was allowed access to the commissioner of police rather than the superintendent of prisons, as ordered by the court. Inside sources told our reporter that there has been severe pressure on the Police Boss from APC leaders at the national level, warranting the apparent flouting of the court order and the attempt to offer the accused person, an escape route. Leo Ekpenyong is said to be a strong ally of Senator Godswill Akpabio,  the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, and may have been banking on the huge connections of the former governor to secure him release from his present ordeal. When confronted in a telephone interview, the state Attorney General Barr. Uwemedimo Nwoko said the police ought to follow the directive of the court to the latter. When contacted, Police spokesperson  Nnudam Frederick(CSP) said he was not aware of the development, while attempts to reach the Police Commissioner proved abortive. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 