By Richard Peters No matter how men try to bury the truth, it must surely surface. Truth is like stubborn pregnancy, which defies every effort aimed at eliminating it. History is replete with stories of how men always try to bury the truth, and some had buried for ages, but with time they were exhumed. Even in the bible, the Pharisees made all attempts to bury the truth about the resurrection of Jesus. They formulated all kinds of lies to suit their selfish interest. They faked stories to excite the masses and give them that sense of false power and influence. But in the end, it was known everywhere that Jesus was no longer in the grave. The empty tomb was enough reason that “He was no more there”. Today, many people in politics are experts in burying the truth, especially if they are not in support of one’s political party, or do not like your person. They often churn out lies and falsehood to mask the good leadership face that some leaders display. They even pay media hireling to ensure that their satanic ink flows at all times against the truth. They fetch words from various lexicons to deface truth and mislead the defenseless masses. A case in point is the many forms of lies churned out by many enemies of progress to discredit His Excellency, Gov. Udom Emmanuel. But such cups of falsehood were on Sunday emptied to the gutters when the Senate President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Sen. Ahmed Ibrahim Lawan extolled the excellent leadership approach of Gov. Emmanuel during the 60th birth anniversary celebration and thanksgiving service of Senator Akon Eyakenyi, the senator representing Eket senatorial district at Destiny International Mission, Uyo. It was a gathering of who-is-who in the country. Ahmed Lawan is from the APC, but the truth about Gov. Emmanuel’s excellent leadership was so pronounced and visible that the senate president could not hide his feelings. Of course, Gov. Emmanuel is an entirely new breed of politician, the species that the modern Nigeria needs. Not only was the governor described as a very decent person, but one who works across party lines to achieve development objectives. This is not the first time that leaders from other political parties pour glowing tributes on Governor Emmanuel. The Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Prof. Yemi Osinbanjo is one honest man that at every opportunity tells the world the truth about Gov. Emmanuel. The Governor is one man who sees leadership as an opportunity to serve the people, and not a platform to make enemies. He exemplifies this vision but associating with leaders from other political parties who have what to offer to the people. A perfect testimony is what transpired during the burial of his father, late Pa Gabriel Nkanang. People from all walks of life and political parties assembled at his instance, and all of them spoke in one voice about the integrity and honesty of Gov. Emmanuel. The Governor is different. This has been the popular narrative from every leader that ever had the opportunity to speak about Gov. Emmanuel. He is like a golden fish that can never hide. Despite how many had been buried in the mucky political waters, Gov. Emmanuel is still clean. His integrity is still intact. That is what defines him. However, what baffles me is the heartlessness by which people attempt to bury the truth about him. But as we know, you may bury the truth for ages, even centuries, but it will surely be exhumed one day. No one ever hid the truth for eternity. Sen. Lawan in his words noted that Gov. Emmanuel ” is one elected leader who believes we should all work together to deliver service to Nigerians”. No wonder why the governor has achieved so much since assumption of office. While some governors are complaining of lean resources, and their inability to deliver dividends of democracy to the people, Gov. Emmanuel is invading different areas of investment, taking industrial territories, completing breath-taking projects and initiating bigger ones. Truth is, Gov. Emmanuel sees beyond a typical Nigerian politician. He is one who believes that love for humanity should drive one to reach out to anyone to facilitate leadership success. By the evaluation of many, even people from the other side of the political divide, Gov. Emmanuel is a new breed of leader for the new Nigeria project; one that other governors should emulate; one that can survive in leadership anywhere in the world. Indeed, Akwa Ibom is blessed. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 