NAFDAC Recruitment 2021/2022 The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control is a government-owned agency under the Ministry Of Health which was established for the main purpose of regulating and maintaining the production, advertisement, distribution and sale of foods, cosmetic products, water etc. Every year, NAFDAC recruits unemployed graduates and undergraduate to reduce the issue of unemployment in the nation. Mission The mission of NAFDAC is to preserve the health of the masses by making sure it hygienic and safe products are sold and distributed around the nation. Vision The vision of NAFDAC is to protect Nigerians health. Duties of the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control(NAFDAC) In order to be eligible for NAFDAC recruitment, candidates must meet up with the following requirements. Furthermore, applicants applying for any job position at NAFDAC must have one or all of the following certificate; WAEC/SSCE certificate with not less than 3 credits including English language and at least 2 other subjects, NECO/GCE(ordinary level) certificate with not less than 4 subjects including English at one sitting or 5 subjects at two sittings, B.Sc/HND/OND/NCE certificate from any reputable institution, GCE(Advanced level) certificate with passes in two subjects at one sitting or passes 3 subjects at two sittings. Also, applicants must be creative, innovative and be willing to push beyond the comfort zone. To apply for NAFDAC recruitment, applicants can choose between online and offline application process. Offline Application For the offline application, applicants can visit any NAFDAC zonal office to submit both application form, relevant documents and curriculum vitae. Make sure the application form contains valid information about you to avoid confusion and disqualification. Online Application In addition, applicants must apply for only one job position as multiples can lead to disqualification. It is also important to know that the application form and process is free, so don’t give anyone money for it. NAFDAC shortlisted candidates list will be published shortly after the thorough application process. Qualified candidates would be invited for an interview at a stipulated date. Candidates are advised to go to the interview centre early and go with all necessary documents. After the interview process, it’s only qualified candidates that will be postponed to the final stage of the recruitment process. Job seekers are always curious about the salary structure of any organization they wish to apply for. Well, NAFDAC pays its employees based on grade and level. From the reviews of past and present employees, it can be seen that new entry employees receive around #70,000 – #90,000 per month after tax deductions. See the below grades and salaries of NAFDAC employees Grade Level 7 employees receive around #1,073,217 per year. Grade Level 8 employees receive around #1,247,854 per year which amounts to about #103,987 per month. From the above salaries, it can be seen that NAFDAC really pays its employees very well. Now, let’s see the kind of benefits you’ll get if you work with NAFDAC. NAFDAC employees are exposed to quite a lot of benefits which makes it an organisation most people are interested in. The benefits include; a good work environment, teamwork, and cooperation. Working with NAFDAC will make you contribute to the affair of public health and to find solutions for related issues. Final Thoughts National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control(NAFDAC) is responsible for regulating and maintaining the safety of the public. The agency is in charge of making sure foods, drinks, water, and other products are safe for human consumption. Every year, unemployed citizens are free to get NAFDAC’s application form and apply for any job position they wish for.Going through the recruitment process is really simple and straightforward. Applicants just have to adhere to the above guidelines for a smooth and stress-free recruitment process. Welcome to zumi.ng ;
Ikechukwu I write for zumi.ng, I am a University graduate, and holds a degree in Mass communication from Abia state University.