…as Environmental Health officers commence inspection ~ Emma Akpabio As part of the strategies to combat flood and sustain the rating of being the cleanest State in Nigeria, the Akwa Ibom State Government has called on residents and shop owners within Uyo, the state capital and other city centers across the state to always clean the gutters in front of their residents/shops, adding that defaulters will be apprehended and prosecuted in accordance with the Law.      The Chairman, Akwa Ibom State Environmental Protection and waste management Agency – AKSEPWMA, Prince Ikim disclosed this on Monday, January 20, 2020, during “Akwa Ibom rising”, a live radio program on inspiration 105.9FM, Uyo. Ikim who has recently been on major roads and streets in the State to implement Governor Udom Emmanuel’s matching order of ensuring that all gutters within flood proned areas are completely desilted, maintained that the job of keeping Akwa Ibom Clean is the responsibility of all residents and citizens of the State. Accordingly, the waste management Boss also vowed to prosecute all defaulters of environmental laws. He reiterated that shop owners are to clean the gutters in front of their shops, to avoid flooding during rainy season. “In line with part 2, Section 6(N) of the Akwa Ibom State Environmental Protection and waste management law cap 47, 2000, the Environmental Health Officers of my Agency have commenced full operation and inspection of shops to ensure that every shop within the State capital has a waste Basket, shovel, Parker and all relevant environmental equipment . If the gutter in front of any shop is not properly desilted, the shop owner will be served a 7days abatement notice, once the inspection team returns to still see the gutters not cleaned, the shop owner or occupant(s) will be apprehended and prosecuted in line with the law. All hands must be on deck to fight flood in our State.” Ikim added. Highlighting three major causes of flood to include; non-desilting of gutters, failed drains and constructions, the former Council Boss of Oruk Anam LGA, who had given 7days ultimatum to shop owners around Nka Market in Eket, seized the opportunity to remind Eket traders and all those who build shops and houses on drainage/ water ways to remove their buildings (shops) otherwise the agency will forcefully pull them down before the rainy season returns. On the recent indiscriminate building of gas stations in between shops and residential areas, Ikim who described such act as being very risky and hazardous, called on gas dealers to always get approval from appropriate quarters before building gas shops anywhere within the city centers. As a revenue generating agency, the youngest Board Chairman in Akwa Ibom State intimated the general public that it is only the AKSEPWMA and AKIRS that have the exclusive rights to issue demand notices for sanitation emblem, pollution and effluent discharge fees, he called on all shop owners to report to the nearest police station, any other person or revenue agent who is not from the aforementioned agencies. Noting that the highest volume of wastes generated in the state comes from the markets, the waste Management Board Chairman who noted that all market committees in the State collect daily sanitation fees from traders without carrying out the sanitation, tasked committee members to review their operations or face the risk of managing the waste by themselves. He called on all residents of the State to be law abiding as the State government under the leadership of Governor Emmanuel is determined to make the environment clean and safe for businesses to thrive. He implored citizens to always report any environmental challenge to the agency’s hotline on 0701 446 6111. Keep Akwa Ibom Clean and safe! Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 