By Ime Jacobs Mother hens are protective of their chicks and they are often aggressive towards impending travails that may befall her chicken and would do everything to ward off such perils. She pecks on anything and everything to avert mortality. She teaches her chicks how to feed while they are fledgling. As the chicks grow strong, and gain mastery of winning their needs from their environment, the mother will have to seperate them into the world to poach strong. This is a true leadership attribute that any good leader worthy of the name, should portray. And there is one man in our clime that is a perfect replica of the mother hen. He is Obong Prince Ikim. Prince Ikim, like the mother hen, is straight forward and steadfast in dealing with human and material resources for the benefit of the people. When entrusted with any leadership position, these attributes have always leveraged him to an enviable, top-notch level of performance.  This likens him to a captain of a ship at the sea with a helm to grap. In ernest, Ikim is a port to seek and a course to steer. His vision is simply to bring peace prosperity and opportunity to every Akwa Ibomite. His people-oriented and people-centered leadership ideology towers him out like mount Everest amidst contemporaries. Like mother hen, his compassion for the society is not only demonstrated in his commitment to change the fortunes of the underprivilege in the state, but has practically demonstrated this in action through several charitable engagements, youth inclusiveness, people orientedness, subordination to authorities and lots more. Through the years in the varying previous leadership positions he has manned, he has risen to earn the sobriquet of a culture-changing role model and beacon of inspiration for many. These few years in office can best be described as a climax of a beehive of life-engaging, life-transforming and life-touching activities that have come to characterise the images of many young and old people around him, except not in contact (nay, even those not in contact) with him. And in the midst of the pomp and pageantry, Ikim stands out a personality who, by the instrumentality of providence, has been saddled with the highest leadership responsibility at this period of history. Ikim understands the matrix that our society can only thrive when the youths and family structures are strengthened through improved living standards, good morals and emotional support to the youth and the old. And so, Ikim has over the years remained steadfast in supporting such course. There is no one way one can give an exhaustive view through the life-touching programs of this great leader, but he has created plethora of platform to showcase successful families; to empower women and provide economic and emotional support to their families; to create a platform for promoting moral values and academic excellence in our youth; to support Government effort towards sustainable development. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 