By Umoh-obong Kingsley Prayers for the speedy realization of the Ibom Deep Seaport project topped the intercessory supplications, as Akwa Ibom people, led by Governor Udom Emmanuel, converged on the Ibom Hall Arena, Uyo on Thursday, in a Solemn Assembly to pray and rededicate the state to God. Speaker after speaker harped on the importance of the final approval of the deep seaport project, and prayed that God who controls the affairs of men, will help the state realize the dreams which Governor Emmanuel has vigorously pursued in the last four and a half years. Speaking at the event, the Governor who went on his knees, declared that 2020 is a year that God shall favour and prosper Akwa Ibom state, and pleaded for forgiveness in whatever way the state had wronged God. Governor Emmanuel expressed appreciation to God particularly for the unity in the state, and rededicated the state to God while praying God to grant redemption throughout the land. The Governor took the only Bible reading at the event from Exodus 3:14-21 and also prayed that God would stretch out His hands and deliver the people of the state from enemies of progress. He assured the state that the enemies they saw in 2019 have been rendered impotent in 2020, and further prayed for success upon all God fearing people of the state. Earlier, the General Overseer of the Christian Fellowship Evangelical Nig. Inc., Rev. Emem Simon Jacob, preaching on the theme of this year’s Solemn Assembly ‘Divine Favour’, explained that favour signifies unmerited help and approval, and prayed God to remove anything that may hinder the actualization of the Ibom Deep Seaport project this year. The annual event featured praise & worship, ministration by CAN  Mass Choir, Government House Divine Voices, and intercessory prayers for the state and country Nigeria taken by the General Council Secretary, Assemblies of God Church Nigeria, Rev. (Dr.) Godwin Amaowoh, and Prelate (Dr.) Isaiah Isong of the Believers Assembly as well as from Dr Sunday Mbang, former President of the Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN. Dignitaries at the event included serving and former government functionaries, clergymen and women in the state, royal fathers, elders, women and youth groups among others. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 