Eye witness account from Essien Udim reveal that the All Progressives Congress are on the plough again to unleash violence on the lives and properties of Essien Udim people during the Court ordered re-run election for  Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District, Federal Constituency and State House of Assembly  slated to hold today, January 25, 2020 at Essien Udim Local Government Area only. Recall that during the February 28 and March 9, 2019 general elections, there was gross violence perpetuated by the All Progressives Congress in Essien Udim Local Government Area, supervised by Senator Godswill Akpabio with the active participation of Hon. Emmanuel Akpan and Hon. Nse Ntuen who were, until their purported withdrawal candidates of the APC for the legislative seats. It was in fact that degree of violence that led to the cancellation of elections in Essien Udim and the order for a re-run to be conducted. Unfortunately, the violence dispensers are at it again, ready to disrupt again the peaceful conduct of the re-run at Essien Udim Local Government Area. The Eye witness, who pleaded anonymity told our team of reporters who arrived Essien Udim since yesterday to monitor the elections that he narrowly escaped the claws of the APC at about 6 am this morning around Independence High School as he was trying to make his way to his home town, Ukana Uwa West 2, to participate at the elections. Narrating his experience, he says armed and heavily built boys on army camouflage stopped him for a check up and he stopped thinking there were men of the Nigerian army only to identify one of them as an indigene of the community who carries on his trade as a mechanic at Ikot Ekpene park. He says when the boy also identified him, he ordered for his beating with the orders; “na PDP boy, na PDP boy, mek him no pass…” and he had to speed off to escape what may have been his death. At the time of filing this report, the atmosphere in Essien Udim is tensed, most indigenes who have spoken to our reporters are unanimous in their opinion that the likes of Senator Godswill Akpabio, Emmanuel Akpan and Nse Ntuen cannot just withdraw from an elections without a fight. There opine that their withdrawal may be a cover for a planned large scale violence on Essien Udim people. Recall that yesterday, January 24, 2020 all candidates of the All Progressives Congress, Akwa Ibom State for the Essien Udim re-run, withdrew from the re-run in what has been described by political commentators as the most shameful display of cowardice. Their withdrawal leaves all the candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party at the thresholds of victory. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 