Manchester City striker Sergio Agüero is the subject of interest from David Beckham-owned MLS franchise Inter Miami. (Source: Sun Sport) AC Milan midfielder Franck Kessie has been offered to West Ham amid struggles to produce his best form at the Serie A heavyweights. (Source: Evening Standard) Borussia Dortmund agreed to insert a release clause of €60m in Erling Haaland’s contract to seal his signature during the January window. (Source: ​Sky Deutschland) Liverpool has an agreement with Timo Werner to sign him from RB Leipzig at the end of the season. (Source: El Desmarque) Liverpool has rejected loan offers from Sevilla and Roma for backup winger Xherdan Shaqiri. Klopp would be willing to sanction his sale in the summer for around €30m. (Source: @JamesPearceLFC) Brighton defender Dan Burn has signed a new contract that will keep him at the club until June 2023. (Source: @OfficialBHAFC) Barcelona wants to sign Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang on loan from Arsenal this month with a view of a permanent move. (Source: GOAL) Barcelona are willing to meet Lautaro Martínez’s €110m release clause and could make their move this month. (Source: Cadena SER) Barcelona has joined the race for AC Milan striker Krzysztof Piątek as they seek cover for the injured Luis Suárez. (Source: Mundo Deportivo) Wolves have signed striker Leonardo Campana from Ecuadorian club Barcelona SC on a three-and-a-half-year contract. (Source:
@Wolves) Arsenal has reached an agreement with Paris Saint-Germain defender Layvin Kurzawa. (Source: France Football) Sunderland has announced the loan signing of Bailey Wright for the rest of the season, joining from Bristol City. (Source:
@SunderlandAFC) Newcastle United have signed Nabil Bentaleb on loan from Schalke until the end of the season with an option to make the deal permanent. (Source:
@NUFC) Chelsea and Paris Saint-Germain are on red alert after Porto defender Alex Telles told the club he does not intend to sign a new contract. (Source: Daily Mail) BREAKING: Javier Hernández has confirmed that he is joining LA Galaxy. (Source: @latimes) Crystal Palace have received a major boost after Wilfried Zaha told the club he wants to stay at Selhurst Park until the end of the season. (Source: Daily Mail) Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 