Christian Eriksen has reached a personal agreement to join Inter Milan on a four-year contract. Tottenham want £17m to let him go in January. (Source: Gazzetta dello Sport) Tottenham look set to beat London rivals West Ham to the signing of Gedson Fernandes. (Source: Guardian) Ernesto Valverde’s time at Barcelona is coming to an end but the Spanish giants won’t sack him until the season finishes. (Source: ESPN) Newcastle and Aston Villa are among several clubs competing for the £15m signing of Le Havre star Tino Kadewere. (Source: Football Insider) Ashley Young refused to play Manchester United’s game against Norwich City and is set to join Antonio Conte’s Inter imminently. (Source: Di Marzio) Ryan Babel has joined Ajax for the third time in his career. He’s signed on loan until June 2020. (Source: @AFCAjax) Napoli have signed German midfielder Diego Demme from RB Leipzig for €12m. (Source: @sscnapoli) Kazuyoshi Miura, the world’s oldest professional footballer, has signed a new one-year contract at Yokohama. He’ll be 53-years old at the end of his deal. (Source: @yokohama_fc) PSG are expecting to sign Mauro Icardi from Inter on a permanent deal this summer. He’ll be offered a four-year contract. (Source: Foot Mercato) Juventus midfielder Emre Can has rejected a move to Manchester United out of respect to his former club Liverpool. (Source: Tuttosport) Inter Milan are due to hold further talks with Christian Eriksen’s agent over the weekend about a potential £17m deal for the Tottenham midfielder. (Source: Sky Italy) Manchester United are interested in signing Wolves striker Raúl Jiménez and are looking at Lyon forward Moussa Dembélé. (Source: Sky Sports) Chelsea are in talks to sign Dries Mertens on a free transfer next summer. (Source: Sun Sport) Manchester United are prepared to launch a £40m bid for West Ham centre-back Issa Diop. (Source: Sun Sport) Tottenham have made Southampton striker Danny Ings a January target after Harry Kane’s long-term injury. (Source: Daily Star) Chelsea have been rocked by N’Golo Kanté who has demanded a move to Spain. Real Madrid are ready to spend over £100m signing him. (Source: Sun Sport) Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 