By Anietie Kingsley When in the early 80s the then Vice Chancellor of the University of Calabar, UNICAL, Professor Emmanuel Ayandele was quoted to have intoned that the people of the old Cross River State were an atomistic society, perpetually at war with itself, many then had called for his head for that insult. With the effluxion of time, coupled with the carving out of Akwa Ibom from Cross River, it could be said that if Ayandele’s comment was premature at the time, it is apt and right on point in the present Akwa Ibom state. Besides, in a media chat with the then governor, Chief Godswill Akpabio sometimes in 2011 as he was winding up his first term, yours faithfully asked him what his greatest regret in office was. Akpabio didn’t mince word when he said that the tag on Akwa Ibom state as a state with the highest number of petition writers was worrisome. He explained further how some will write two or three different petitions on one subject within an interval of weeks. Unfortunately, according to him these petitions only made Akwa Ibom people a laughing stock before the eyes of the members of those ethnic groups that these petitions are submitted to. It thus calls to mind why a few charlatans reined abuses on the General Overseer of the RCCG, Dr. Enoch Adeboye when he said in a prayer during the 2019 carol festival “Lord God Almighty, all those who wish this state well, let it be well with them. Whoever might be an enemy of this state, I am asking tonight will not see the New Year”. Regardless, the scripture was apt when it noted that a man’s enemy will be the person of his household. This, by implications show that the enemies of Akwa Ibom are Akwa Ibomites themselves as typified by the undignified character of Senator Ita Solomon Enang, who in a petition sought the stoppage of expansion of the airport road from four lanes to six lanes. In the letter dated 5th December 2019, and addressed to the Honorable Minister for Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, Enang, relied on hearsay and rumour when he wrote “It is rumoured that the state government intend (sic) to expand the road to six lanes from the current four lanes. And there is no traffic or congestion on this road warranting such.” As exposed as one would have thought Enang is, having spent the last 21 years in the corridors of power in Abuja, Enang ought to have known that just as the federal Government is expanding its infrastructure to accommodate urban migration into the federal capital city, Uyo capital city is developing and needs expansion of infrastructure even beyond the limits of the capital territory. It is in recognition of this template that the state government is embarking on the dualization of Nung Oku Ikono to Etinan, airport road to Okopedi and Uyo to Ikot Ekpene. Be that as it may be, with Udom Emmanuel’s administration developing the cargo terminal and the permanent terminal building at the airport, one cannot but imagine the traffic and vehicular congestion along the airport road in the next few years if expansion is not carried out at the moment. Moreover, the traffic and congestion on the said road would be worse when work begins in earnest on the proposed Ibom Deep Seaport which the governor is vigorously pursuing. It is certainly an act of witchcraftcy and enemy action against the State, that Enang, instead of drawing FG’s attention to the gully ravaged Calabar-Itu road, the collapsed Abak –Ikot Abasi express way and Aba-Ikot Ekpene –Odukpani- Calabar Highway rather opted to use federal might stop the state government from carrying out expansion of the road infrastructure. It could also be recalled that the ilk of Enang was alleged to have earlier petitioned the federal government against giving approval to the state government for the award of contract for the dualization of the Abak –Ikot Abasi Highway. Though Ita Enang lives in Ewet Housing, it appears he is quite ignorant of the traffic congestion in some parts of the airport road specifically at Mbiabong timber market in the mornings and evenings. It is regrettable that several investment drives of Governor Udom Emmanuel that requires federal approval have been thwarted by petitions written by Senator Ita Enang against his state government. He is alleged to have been the mastermind against the establishment of a ranch in Uruan where government had earlier incurred cost. Unfortunately Senator Enang, while using the APC federal government to stop investment and development efforts of Akwa Ibom state where higher approvals are needed, has not attracted any development to the state. It is not in contention that despite being the state with the highest production of crude oil, no project has been initiated, executed or commissioned by the APC-led Federal Government in Akwa Ibom state. It is not therefore surprising why it has become an uphill task for the Federal Government to sign the final contractual agreement with the preferred bidder for the construction of Ibom Deep seaport because Enang may have used his influence in the presidency to work against it. One is tempted to ask why Enang is working against the state in which he has a vested interest to govern in 2023. If Enang really has the interest of Akwa Ibom at heart beyond pecuniary satisfaction, wouldn’t it have served us better for him to liaise with government of the state to attract projects from the Federal government irrespective of political differentiation? Arguably, it would be erroneous to consider the Airport road as a federal road because with the airport terminating the former Uyo-Oron road, the road should automatically become an internal road of the state. Beyond politics, in consideration of the several enemy actions that Ita Enang has done to thwart development projects in the state through petitions, he should have been declared a persona-non-grata and an enemy of Akwa Ibom state. Kingsley, a commentator on public issues writes from Uyo Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 