Chelsea boss Frank Lampard is eyeing an ambitious move to land £60m-rated Bayern Munich left-back David Alaba this month. (Source: Sunday Mirror) Manchester United are ready to allow Paul Pogba to join Inter willing they can sign striker Lautaro Martínez in return. (Source: Sunday Mirror) Liverpool, Manchester United and Chelsea have been put on red alert by the news that Barcelona are willing to let Ousmane Dembélé leave the club. (Source: Sunday Express) Pedro may have to give up on a return to Barcelona from Chelsea as the winger looks set to move to David Beckham’s Inter Miami. (Source: Mail on Sunday) Barcelona have joined Manchester United, Tottenham and PSG in the chase for Leicester right-back Ricardo Pereira after sending scouts to the King Power Stadium. (Source: Sun Sport) Inter Milan want to sign Christian Eriksen for £20m this month – even though the Tottenham star is available for nothing in the summer. (Source: Sun on Sunday) Carlo Ancelotti has backed a bold Everton move to bring Real Madrid playmaker James Rodriguez to Goodison Park on loan. (Source: Sunday Mirror) Manchester United are interested in a January move for Wolves duo Raúl Jiménez and Rúben Neves. (Source: GOAL) Galatasaray have signed Henry Onyekuru from Monaco on loan until end of the season. He’ll wear the No.70 shirt. (Source:
@Galatasaray) Leicester City want Merih Demiral on loan from Juventus. They’ve already had a £25.5m bid rejected. (Source: Sky Italia) Harry Winks is a transfer target for Manchester United AND Manchester City. United want him in January, City in the summer. (Source:
@David_Ornstein) Manchester United’s Jesse Lingard has switched agents to begin working with Mino Raiola. (Source: Daily Mail) Arsenal have enquired about the availability of Bayern’s Jérôme Boateng. They’ve asked them to name a transfer fee, loan chances and player wages. (Source: Sky Sports) Frank Lampard has made Inter Milan striker Gabriel Barbosa his top target for the January transfer window. (Source: Express) PSG are ready to offer AC Milan €80m in a double swoop for Alessio Romagnoli and Lucas Paqueta. (Source: Corriere dello Sport) Newcastle United would like to sign Chelsea striker Olivier Giroud on loan for the rest of the season. (Source: Telegraph) Aston Villa and Newcastle United are looking at a 6-month deal for Glenn Murray. (Source: Guardian) Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 