…Appointment to last for three years By Endiong John Akwa Ibom State’s Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Barr. Uwemedimo Nwoko has attained a new height in Nigeria’s Body of Benchers following his appointment to serve as a member of the recruitment, promotion and disciplinary committee of the body of benchers on staff matters. In a letter dated 6th January, 2020 and signed by the Secretary of the body, Mrs H. A. Turaki, the esteemed body announced that Nwoko would now be expected to assume his duties in the committee designated for him immediately, stating that three years is the duration of the appointment. “I am directed to inform you that you have been appointed to serve as a member of the Recruitment, Promotion and Disciplinary Committee of the Body of Benchers on Staff matters. This appointment is with immediate effect and will last for a period of 3 years “, the appointment letter reads in part. Recruitment, Promotion and Disciplinary Committee Of The Body Of Benchers On Staff Matters is a sensitive arm of the Body of Benchers responsible for the recruitment, promotion and checking of the excesses of staff of the body. The Nigerian Body of Benchers is a professional body concerned with the admission of prospective student into the
Nigerian Law School. Members of the body are called Benchers . The body also regulate the call of graduate of law school to the Nigerian Bar as well as the regulation of the legal profession in Nigeria. . Responding to the appointment, Barr. Uwemedimo expressed appreciation to the Body for deeming him worthy of service in such a sensitive committee. The Honourable Attorney General thanked Governor Udom Emmanuel for appointing and sustaining him as Attorney General of Akwa Ibom State which gave him automatic membership into the Body of Benchers. He also thanked the plurality of Akwa Ibom State people for supporting Deacon Udom Emmanuel. Nwoko’s latest appointment into the Recruitment, Promotion and Disciplinary Committee of the Body of Benchers is largely expected to be of great benefit to Akwa Ibom State, especially those of the law profession as well as Nigeria as a whole. He is expected to employ his integrity and experience while discharging his duties. The respected lawyer was first appointed Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in January 2015 and has so far served honourably in the last five years. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 