By Emma Akpabio Thursday was the day, Government House Banquet Hall was the venue where the Executive Governor of Akwa Ibom State – Mr. Udom Emmanuel, on December 7, 2017, swore-in 29 gentlemen and 2 ladies, as duly elected Chairmen of the 31 Local Government areas of Akwa Ibom State who will serve till December 2020. Two years down the line, “Council Ifònò” (Council is not good), allocation ifònò, have been the trending slogan attributed to the majority of Council Chairmen that were voted with high expectations. Surprisingly, most of them who haven’t even paid their Councillors and other Staffers entitlements fully, not to talk of fulfilling campaign promises, are already nursing second term ambition. Quite laughable! Without party sentiments, the truth is, even after two years in office, so many Local Government Council Chairmen are yet to really understand the powers, roles, responsibilities and even the functions of the third tier of Government, as enshrined in the Constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria. This naivety and official negligence have not only brought untold hardship to the grass rooters, it has also promoted irrelevant rural-urban migration and high rate of mortality due to lack of basic social amenities. Akwa Ibom State and Nigeria at large can never be better without a responsible and responsive Local Government in power. No nation can boast of excellent performance within the public sector at the grass root if a large percentage of her rural inhabitants are facing uncontrolled abject poverty, needs/Wants, socioeconomic dilemma and basic social amenities. Though the Akwa Ibom State Government has intervened through her inter-ministerial and direct Labour projects, the prevalent lack of social amenities in some interior areas of the state reveals that the third tiers of government are lacking performance in the area of service delivery and over the years, this has not only made the rural development difficult for the State government, but has also caused the citizens to lose both faith and trust in local Government which is supposed to be the closest government to the people. Before you applaud mediocrity by exempting your council Boss or accuse me of fighting the system, December 2, 2019 marked the second year Akwa Ibom people elected the 31 Council Chairmen currently in power. Let’s stop and think! How many Council live touching projects have your council Boss successfully initiated and completed? How many of them have truly graded the rural roads in their respective rural areas if not for media hype? How many have been able to establish or even maintain the local markets, motor parks, street drains? How many of them that complain of low allocation really thought of how to improve internally generated revenue, either from licensing of bicycles, trucks, motor cycles and collection of taxes/fees? Truth is, those revenue generating channels have been traded for political compensation. How many of Council Heads are creative enough to build skill acquisition centers that will minimize unnecessary migration? Why are the Students not getting bursary and grants from the local Government again? Why do the council Chairmen keep complaining, yet they are building houses, acquiring assets and even nursing second term ambition everywhere? If allocations are not coming as expected, why not resign? Why seek a second term? Well, it’s important to know that Akwa Ibom people are becoming wiser, the era of imposing leaders are gradually becoming the past. It is worthy of note that the failure of local government administration as an institution to solve the ongoing problems of the people at the grassroots retards the closeness of the people to this grass root Government. Though local governments in Akwa Ibom State, like those of other States in the country are characterized by political instability, scarcity of resources, lack of accountability, poor planning, lack of political leadership, truth remains that the State and federal Governments cannot function effectively if the grass root government is weak. To this end, the first and second tiers must not temper with the funds of the third tier of government in a bid to improve the quality of lives at the grass root through the provision of basic social amenities like: food, portable water, rural electrification, primary health care services, renovation of schools, etc. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 