Agency Report The Commissioner of Police in Akwa Ibom State, Mr. Imohimi Edgal has ordered the immediate arrest of a Police Inspector, Bassey Ikpe, for allegedly beating one Mrs. Deborah Nkereuwem Nkpenie, to death. In a statement made available to newsmen in Uyo by the Police Public Relations Officer, Mr. Odiko Macdon, the police commissioner directed the Deputy Commissioner in charge of the State Criminal Investigation Department, SCID, to carry out a thorough investigation into the matter. Mr. Bassey Peter Ikpe who is a police inspector reportedly beat up Mrs. Deborah Nkereuwem Nkpenie to death on Thursday, 16th of January, 2020. According to an eye witness report, the incident happened inside the Headquarters of the Akwa Ibom State Police Command in Uyo. The deceased who was supposed to appear at the police station following a police invitation was taken to the police headquarters by a Keke driver by name Ukpono Sunday Umoren who witnessed the alleged beating of the deceased by the police inspector to death. Narrating the ordeal, Mr. Ukpono noted that the deceased was sick and she had made several efforts to warn the police inspector of her condition, but the police inspector who was not satisfied with her explanation dragged her forcefully out of the Keke making her hit her head by the side rail of the Keke. Mr. Ukpono noted that although the deceased was finding difficulty in breathing and was even screaming that she was not in a good state of health, the police officer did not listen to her. “She began to suffocate but the policeman kept insisting that she was lying. He even told her that, if she wants to die, she should die” Speaking with our correspondent in response to this incident, a United State based Nigerian Lawyer, Mr. Nsikak Pius advised the Nigeria police force to purge out bad eggs from the police force, according to him, the bad eggs who normally should have been in jail were hiding under the uniform to commit many unprintable crimes. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 