Press statement With the declared results by INEC of the Court ordered rerun elections in Essien Udim Local Government Area for the Senate, House of Representatives and House of Assembly seats, the people of Essien Udim have brought a glorious end to an inglorious, disdainful and disgraceful comedy session staged under the leadership of the National Comedian himself and actively supported by the pioneer and only speaker of the House of Comedy. Yesterday, the people of Essien Udim massively rejected the trio of Senator Godswill Akpabio, Hon. Emmanuel Akpan and Hon. Nse Ntuen who were candidates for the Senate, House of Representatives and House of Assembly candidates of the All Progressives Congress. The people happily expanded the margin of victory against the Warsaw Commander and his lieutenants, despite their spirited attempts to rig the elections. The people saw through the facade they made with the withdrawal statements and went out in their numbers to give them an uncommon final interment. The trio had announced to the world that they had withdrawn from the elections, but were actively planning on how to spring a surprise, by rigging the elections in favour of their party, knowing that their withdrawal is not recognized by law and that if they win, they will be announced winners, returned elected and subsequently sworn in. In proof of their nefarious intent, Electoral materials and personnel of INEC were hijacked and taken to the residence of Barr. Ibanga Akpabio, a cousin of Senator Godswill Akpabio and an APC chieftain. Another relative and aide of the rejected Senator, Emmanuel Inyangetor when caught by journalists in his polling unit rigging elections, ordered that the journalists be assaulted and their phones smashed. Additionally, the APC state Chairman, Ini Okopido in an interview with some journalists yesterday, admitted that though their party had ‘withdrawn’, but if the results favour their candidates, they will be happy to receive it. He added that he had instructed their party agents not to sign result sheets. The question is, if you had withdrawn, what will your unit agents be doing at polling units? Agents are subjects of their principal and therefore if the principal withdraws, it is expected that the agent should act in like manner. The APC continues to stand logic on its head with their withdrawal charade – it shows that they are either ignorant of the laws guiding elections, or are just being mischievous – which is their primary nature. We call on the Inspector General of Police to order the arrest of Barr. Ibanga Akpabio whose house was converted to a super voting center for six units. We also demand a prosecution of all those arrested in connection with electoral irregularities during yesterday’s election. We congratulate Senator Christopher Ekpenyong, Hon. Nsikak Ekong and Barr. Esse Umoh on their resounding victory. We urge them to wholly donate themselves to the service of their constituencies, in appreciation for the confidence placed on them. As a party that has always put our trust in OnlyGod, we are careful to return all the glory and honour to God, who by His mighty hand alone gave us victory against the cacophony of impediments placed on our path by the opposition APC. Today, we can make the Biblical victory proclamation, “I (we) will sing unto the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously: the horse and his rider hath he thrown into the sea. Pharaoh’s chariots and his host hath he cast into the sea: his chosen captains also are drowned in the Red sea…The depths have covered them: they sank into the bottom as a stone. (Exodus 15:1-5) We will continually thank Akwa Ibom people for their unflinching support to our party since the inception of this democratic experience. Our State Chairman, Obong Paul Ekpo on the behalf of the leadership and membership of the party specially extends his deepest gratitude to Akwa ibom people for the humongous show of faith, love and acceptance shown the PDP. He assures that all our candidates will work to justify their mandates. To OnlyGod be the glory! Signed: Comrade Ini Ememobong
State Publicity Secretary
People Democratic Party
Akwa Ibom State Chapter
26012020 Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 