By Uwemedimo Umani Undoubtedly one of the most colourful politicians of his rogue generation, Godswill Akpabio, former Commissioner, Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, former Commissioner, Ministry of Rural Development, former governor of Akwa Ibom State, former Minority Leader and former senator, all under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP is what bombasts would call ‘tailor-made’. Until recently, he had a way of fitting into all manner of jankara political wears, whether Tokunbo or Nigeria-use. But when he switched into the very party he had cursed when he was governor, he became a chief-partaker of the curse that even a Tokunbo political wear could not fit him. Akpabio soon after his defection into the All Progressives Congress, APC strived to dismiss the assertion that his defection was primarily for his personal interest. He had said occasionally that his ‘movement’ to the APC was to link Akwa Ibom State with the center. “Which kind center wey him wan link our State with? This na the question wey local men been dey ask. Few days later, Akpabio turned from an emperor to a wolf. He was eager to crush any walking object not minding the implication.. E remain small, him for scatter scatter all him brothers wey dey for PDP. Him bin say him wan grap him state like one criminal wey bin cause plenty wahala for Poland. Warsaw will see war and war will see Warsaw”. Na wetin Akpabio bin tell us be this. To cut the Tori short. Akpabio was beaten at the election date. Even to see sand pack him no bin see. E come dey like say him dey for another world. Akpabio was languishing in agony not until he found his way to Calabar where a lot of people trooped in to comfort him. Akwa Ibom to am bin dey like hell, so him no bin get any other option than to vamus for the State for a very short time. After he was beaten at the pool, Akpabio was induced to believe that he didn’t lose fairly, so he must challenge the election result at the Court of competence. So he came up with a slogan, “my mandate was stolen”. All him people for town bin dey shout ” Akpabio’s stolen mandate” soh-te VP Osinbajo as him enter Uyo for one event like that no kom get wetin to talk. Him bin reason say as Uncle Buhari head bin dey hot so during that time, if him misbehave, sacking letter go follow am the next day. Omor eh! The man comport soh-te him kom talk say that Akpabio mandate wey PDP dong steal so, him go make sure say them return give am. Yours truly, this was what saved his job. Akpabio had thought Mr. VP was serious with what he said. The next week, him run go file Petition for Tribunal. Da! The way those Tribunal judges take dismiss Akpabio case. E bin dey like one ugly girl wey nigga discharge for house quick quick to avoid acciban. E show say them sef no bin get joy for their body.
Akpabio was again beaten, though the beating was not yet confirmed. Akpabio to confirm his beating moved to the Appellate Court to appeal the Tribunal’s verdict. For here, everyone for town bin dey vex. ” Why Akpabio go use him hand take sign him dead warrant? Them dong beat am soh-te him face kom swell. Why him still wan make Ukarakpa beat am? The people kom dey disassociate themselves from am. Day by day, we kom dey hear ” I’m no longer an APC supporter. I’ve moved on. I love PDP”. Finally, we kom reason say plenty people no like beating, na only Akpabio dey enjoy am. The Appellate Court after confirming Akpabio’s second beating worsened his case by ordering him to go and get another beating in Essien Udim, his Local Government Area. They ordered a rerun in only Essien Udim Local Government. This was as good as telling Akpabio, ” omor go there and die your die”. Akpabio after the Court’s verdict, had made series of attempts not to participate in the rerun election as ordered by the Court. He tried to substitute his name for Ekperikpe Ekpo but INEC on countless times said no to him. They said at a point like this, Akpabio cannot transfer his beating to an innocent fellow. So he must go to the poll and chop his beating alone. Akpabio knowing that his beating was inevitable, organized a Press Conference, stating his withdrawal from the race. Him eyes that day bin red. Him kom dey say, ” I no dey stand the election again. If party no fit file Ekperikpe Ekpo for the election, make them forget. I no dey do again”. Yours truly everyone believed that Akpabio was not contesting again. Because the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria has stipulated that anyone seeking an elective position must resign his appointment 30days before the election date, Akpabio knew that resigning his position to contest in the rerun election was tantamount to a suicidal mission. He also knew that the beating awaiting whoever would contest the election against Senator Christopher Ekpenyong was inevitable. So he swore to hold fast on a bird at hand, which is his current Ministerial position. But if PDP had relaxed, na blood them for cry now. Because Akpabio, Emman Akpan and Nse Ntuen for do them ‘ aben emi adia, aben enyemi afo akpa”. Infact, them for play PDP ” enyen onwong ikwe usung” just like Austin Jay Jay Okocha. On the eve of the election, Nse Ntuen who is the APC State Constituency Candidate in Essien Udim joined his master, Chief Godswill Akpabio to withdraw self from the race. Few hours later, Emman Akpan who’s the Federal Constituency Candidate for Ikot Ekpene/ Obot Akara/ Essien Udim Federal Constituency also withdrew himself from the race. This thing no bin be bobo juice matter. Town be waw. People wey bin dey expect to do pickings on the election day kom dey para why them for withdraw from the race. Da feel say their ticket dong cut. But they didn’t know it was only but a technical antic to execute their maiming plan. Again, they were not sure of making it through. This was why they issued a release in the eve of the election intimating the public of their withdrawal so that when they results are announced and they lost, they would give an excuse that they had withdrew themselves from the race. On the election day, Akpabio, Emman Akpan and Nse Ntuen were in their respective polling units. They had drawn out strategies where they would win the election criminally. Immediately the election materials arrived some polling units, INEC officials, NYSC Corp Members and the materials were abducted to unknown locations. To saddened everything, they were protected by some security officers while undergoing their usual wicked act. There was massive thump-printing for the three APC candiai at Akpabio’s residence. It took the intervention of the DSS to save the abductees from their abductors. Just as expected, there was serious mayhem releases on voters and accredited journalists who were on ground to monitor the election. There was a massive destruction of sensitive electoral materials in polling units where they could not hijack. Emmanuel Inyangetor, Akpabio’s Aide being so disappointed by the outcome of the election threaten to kill a journalist if not for the prompt intervention of men of the DSS. Also, a photo journalist was almost butchered by Akpabio’s boys at Akpabio’s polling unit. As I write this, the young man has been hospitalized in a certain hospital at Uyo with a swollen face. Journalists were barred from entering Senator Akpabio’s polling unit and according to Information, there were irregularities going on inside there. The INEC officials and NYSC Corp Members that were inside were defenseless as men of the Nigerian Police Force controlled by Akpabio’s younger brother supervised their maltreatment by Akpabio’s boys. DIG Ogbizi that was brought to the State for the reason of the rerun election turned against Akpabio at the election date. The man beholding the hilarious mayhem released on the people by an acclaimed Nationalist was left with no option than to rebelled against him. He joined forces with the State Commissioner of Police to ensure the safety of the voters, observers, INEC officials and sensitive electoral materials. This was when Akpabio threatened that they’ll be sacked. After all these gra gra by Akpabio and his boys, one thing they were unable to change was the fact that Akpabio has raped the constitutional sanctity of the Land. As a sitting Minister, he has contested an election without resigning. This incident has posed a negative antecedent on the anal of our constitution. Wait a minute! Has Nigeria become so lawless? Indeed, it would take so many years to purge out this debacle from our land. Again, Akpabio even with his boys, Federal might and other forces couldn’t avert his beating. Before these factors, Akpabio, Emman Akpan and Nse Ntuen were outrightly beaten the third time and this one, person wey no been know dong know. Now I can attest that Akpabio loves to be beaten. Umani Uwemedimo is a Public Affairs Analyst, writes from Uyo. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 