The Deputy Chairman, Communications Committee in the House of Representatives, Hon. Unyime Idem has challenged the Church in Nigeria to produce the next set of Political, Economic, Traditional and Religious Leaders as a solution to the myriads of challenges plaguing the Nation. Hon. Idem who was the Special Guest of honour at the Jesus’ Meal/Thank you Service of the New Ark of Covenant Ministries in Uyo, a yearly luncheon of the Church said the Church in Nigeria besides praying, has the responsibility of training, mentoring and facilitating the emergence of a new set of Leaders in all spheres of Leadership; who are well bred and can bring about the desired Political and Economic transformation in Nigeria. The lawmaker while appreciating the Church for her spiritual role over the years said the Church can do more to influence growth and development in Nigeria by being actively involved in the Leadership selection process. He reiterated that while the Church means well for the Nation, the goodwill can only see the light of the day when the Church gets directly involved in Political, Economic, Traditional and Religious discourse. Responding, the Chairman of Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria  (PFN) in Akwa Ibom State, Bishop Emmanuel Etim said the challenge thrown by Hon. Idem has been taken up by Church Leaders in the State particularly the PFN. He assured that adequate steps will be taken to facilitate the emergence of a new crop of Leaders to dominate the Leadership sphere in Nigeria within the next ten years. On his part, the immediate past Chairman of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Akwa Ibom State Chapter, ArchBishop (Dr.) Cletus Bassey who was the Keynote Speaker at the event acknowledged the contributions of Hon. Unyime Idem to Nation Building through quality motions, contributions and programmes he has initiated in the last six months in the National Assembly and appreciated him for being the voice the people have always yearned for. The Senior Pastor of Word Tabernacle  (VIP Chapel), Bishop Dr. Gabriel Nkenang was not left out as he described Hon. Idem as an emerging star who knows the right place to be at the right time for the good of his people. In his closing remarks, the Prelate of the Church, Bishop John Ekong appreciated Hon. Idem for always identifying with his people and the Church and for being a worthy tool in the hands of God. The event also had in attendance Bishops Joe Idem, Udeme Simon, Moswill Umoh and a host of other clergies. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 