Barcelona legend Xavi has been approached regarding a possible return to Camp Nou as head coach. (Source: RAC1) Olivier Giroud has agreed a 2-and-a-half year provisional deal with Inter Milan; Chelsea want between €8m and €10m in order to sell the striker. (Source: Sky Italia) Juventus are closing in on a deal for Manchester United’s Tahith Chong, and Tottenham’s Troy Parrott is another youngster on their radar. (Source: Tuttosport) Real Madrid still want to sell Wales forward Gareth Bale despite his agent saying a summer move is unlikely. (Source: Telegraph) Swansea City have signed Chelsea youngster Marc Guehi on loan until the end of the season. (Source: @SwansOfficial) Crystal Palace have signed Cenk Tosun from Everton on a 6-month loan deal. (Source: @CPFC) Juventus midfielder Emre Can has ruled out a potential move to Manchester United. (Source: Daily Mirror) Tottenham have agreed a £28m deal with AC Milan for Krzysztof Piątek. The Polish striker will sign a 3-and-a-half year contract and complete a medical in the next 48 hours. (Source: Sun Sport) Manchester United have accepted Tottenham midfielder Christian Eriksen wants to move abroad rather than Old Trafford. (Source: Evening Standard) Patrick Cutrone is in Florence to complete his move to Fiorentina. The striker has agreed a loan until the end of the season with a view to a permanent deal. The overall deal will be worth around £16m. (Source: Sky Sports) Huddersfield have signed Emile Smith Rowe from Arsenal on loan for the rest of the season. (Source: @htafc) Chris Wilder has signed a four-and-a-half year deal at Sheffield United until the summer of 2024. (Source: @SheffieldUnited) Christian Eriksen’s agent is in Milan to meet the directors of Inter. They’ll discuss a pre-contract for the summer. (Source: Sky Italia) Chelsea could sign Thomas Lemar on loan until the end of the season when top target Jadon Sancho could be available. (Source: Telegraph) RB Leipzig forward Ademola Lookman will undergo a medical at Newcastle this week. The 22-year-old is expected to sign on a loan-to-buy deal. (Source: Football Insider) Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 