Chelsea have been put off by Crystal Palace’s £80m price tag for Wilfried Zaha. (Source: Daily Express) Juventus are set to make an offer of €10m plus €5m in add-ons for Barcelona full-back Juan Miranda. (Source: SPORT) Bryan Cristante has signed a new contract with Roma until 2024. (Source: @ASRomaEN) Newcastle want to sign Ademola Lookman on loan with an option to buy at the end of the season. (Source: Shields Gazette) Newcastle want to sign Ademola Lookman on loan with an option to buy at the end of the season. (Source: Shields Gazette) Ole Gunnar Solskjær is considering a move for Ajax’s Donny van de Beek this month. (Source: ESPN) Chelsea are reportedly set to try and break Lyon’s resolve by offering £40m plus Olivier Giroud in a bid to sign Moussa Dembélé. (Source: Daily Mirror) Paris Saint-Germain will not cash in on Edinson Cavani this month despite interest from Manchester United and Atlético Madrid. (Source: Daily Mirror) Aston Villa have been offered the chance to sign Milan goalkeeper Pepe Reina. (Source: Daily Mail) Wilfried Zaha’s new agent Pini Zahavi is trying to reach a deal with Tottenham for his client. £80m is the asking price. (Source: Mirror) Carlo Ancelotti has told Gylfi Sigurdsson that he will be sold in the January transfer window. (Source: Daily Express) AC Milan are considering a move for Chelsea centre-back Andreas Christensen. This’ll be a loan with option to buy. (Source: Sky Italia) Aston Villa are considering a bid for AC Milan forward Krzysztof Piątek. Talks are ongoing but the striker is yet to decide his future. (Source: @FabrizioRomano) Inter Milan want to sign Ashley Young. Talks are ongoing with Manchester United and the player is ready to accept. (Source: Sky Sports) Manchester City are prepared to trigger the £100m release clause in Kalidou Koulibaly’s contract at Napoli. (Source: 90min) Swansea City have signed Rhian Brewster on a loan for the remainder of the season. He’ll wear the number 19 shirt. (Source: @SwansOfficial) Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 