The Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Mr. Udom Emmanuel Friday, visited Iwuokpom Community to sympathized with victims of the fire disater whose houses and properties worth millions of Naira where destroyed by the inferno, assuring them of  his administration’s support and commitment to give them a new pahse of life. Assessing the affected area which approximately could be a football field size expressed shock over the level of devastation and sufferings the inferno had caused Iwuokpum community. The Governor who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem, commended the villagers united efforts for initiating a fire-front fighting approach to have put off the wild  fire without any life lost and no fire burnt injuries sustained even without the help of the fire Service officials. Dr. Ekuwem while addressing the homeless fishermen whose houses have been destroyed by the inferno assured them of Governor Emmanuel’s readiness to  provide  adequate funds and necessary support to effectively assuage their sufferings and pains. The SSG advised that access road should not  be interconnected when structures of any kind is to be erected. He emphasized that a design that will reflect global  standard when reconstructing the devastated fishing area at Iwuopkpum in order to avert future occurrence must be strictly adhered to. “Governor Udom Emmanuel is a listening, compassionate and a very responsive leader whom at any time is  having the people at heart. Unfortunately he is engaged in another official assignment outside the State. Our coming here on his directive is to ascertain level of damages for possible rapid action to ensure the sufferings and pains of Iwuokpum people caused by the fire inferno is assuaged indicates the Governor’s love for his people” Ekuwem Stated. Also Speaking, the Commissioner for Special Duties and Aviation Development, Rt. Hon. Okpolupm Etteh, an indigene of Ibeno lGA shared in the pains engulfing the people of Iwuokpom whom he said are peaceful, loving and hardworking. He encouraged them to remain calm while awaiting government rapid attention and support. “Governor Emmanuel is a man whose word are his bond. He is not happy that this unwholesome incidence happened hence our coming to help map out measures through which those affected can be assisted and the area rebuilt”. Ette submitted. The village head of Iwuokpum village, Chief Okon Akpanowung, who spoke on behalf of Iwuokpom community, appealed through the SSG to the governor for a speedy donation of relief materials which Dr. Ekuwem immediately complied with assurances of more  government support. The delegation however made a stop-over at the Palace of the Paramount Ruler of Ibeno, HRM Obong Effiong Archianga, where the SSG intimated the Paramount Ruler of the Governor’s inclination to salvage  Iwuokpum people from their present predicament which he described as unfortunate and pathetic. Iwuokpum is predominantly occupied by fishermen. The area engulfed by fire is popularly called “Yoruba Quarters”.  Properties calculated to have been lost to the fire inferno include; thousands of fishing nets, hundreds of canoe boats. On ground to welcome and lead the SSG and it’s team round the burnt area was a former Transition Chairman of Ibeno LGC, High Chief Williams Mkpa and the Local Government Vice Chairman, Mr. Isokobo. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 