…as kinsmen passes vote of confidence on Gov. Emmanuel. By Amadie Akpabio In line with the party constitution and guidelines in ensuring internal democracy within the party, the Peoples Democratic Party in Oruk Anam local government area on Thursday zoned key elected positions of the party within the two major axis ( Oruk and Anam) making the Local Goverment area. The decision was taken during the party caucus meeting at the Oruk Anam local government council secretariat, Ikot Ibritam . Speaking at the meeting, the chairman of PDP in the area, Hon. Jacob King said the essence of the meeting was to invoke the party constitution on the issue bordering zoning in the area for political direction. In a unanimous decision, the caucus resolved that the office of the executive chairman in Oruk Anam which currently occupied by Hon. Ubong Idiong of Oruk, the PDP chapter chairman and the state party officer be retain in ORUK and ANAM bloc of Oruk Anam respectively till 2023.
While the House of Assembly seat shall rotate from Anam axis to Oruk axis of Oruk Anam in 2023. In his address, the executive chairman Oruk Anam LGA, Hon. Atuekong Ubong Idiong while welcoming the caucus members stated that Oruk Anam is a peaceful and progressing local government because of the many live touching project put forward by his admnistration and the effort of the State government in the area. He urged the youths to desist from violence and embrace peace for the growth of the area. The House leader and member representing Oruk Anam State Constituency, Rt. Hon. Udo Kierian Akpan, in his reaction, maintained that the meeting was in line with the Stateholders aggreement with Governor Udom Emmanuel to give the party a political direction in order to avoid any political rancor. “Whatever we are doing here is in line with His Excellency’s instruction during our last stakeholders meeting shortly before 2019 PDP primaries, that, Oruk Anam should sit and zone where political offices should go, to avoid polical rancor and for a peaceful coexistence among members of the party” he stated “Bear in mind that, in 2012, we had this sort of meeting when Hon. Ichong Umoren was a chapter chairman,not untill the death of our beloved brother, late Linus Ekuriku which truncated the process.” he added. Earlier, the caucus through the House Leader, Rt. Hon. Udo Kierian Akpan passed a vote of confidence on the governor, Mr. Udom Gabriel Emmanuel, on the infrastructure renaissance in Oruk Anam local government area and beyond, the motion was seconded by the women leader of the party, Hon. Mrs Grace Ikpong. Notable voice who also speak in support of the zoning were the president, Oruk Anam leadership forum, Hon. Sunday Okoko, Obong Sunny Udom, Hon. Udoma Bob Ekarika, Prince Sampson Idiong, Hon. Sunday Festus for on behalf of the youths while the PDP women leader speaks for the women. The meeting had in attendance, the senatorial district chairman of PDP, Hon. Cletus Eshiet, Chief Udo Edem, Chief Soni Udom, SA to governor on inter-ministerial, Prince Sampson Idiong, SSA on education monitoring, Mrs Idongesit Etiebet, Chairman, Akwa Ibom State Environmental and Waste Management Board, Hon. Prince Ikim, others were Hon. Iqwat Umoren, SSA to governor on electoral matters, Hon. Paul Udofia, Sir S J. Ntefre, others include all past and current political office holders in the state and local government area Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 