The need to continually improve the economic well-being of the citizenry and territorial security architecture is the basis of true governance. This is especially so in a democracy where leadership is bestowed through the trust and mandate of the people. Since May 29, 2015, His Excellency, Governor Udom Emmanuel has demonstrated an unparalleled understanding of the essence of governance, by implementing policies and programmes that have both direct and indirect positive impact on the lives of the people. The imprints of his leadership acumen span across all economic sectors, setting new and higher standards, which defy long held postulations and economic indices. Indeed it’s been a refreshing departure from the era of ‘anything goes’ in governance and a dawn of a new socioeconomic and political era. Apart from remaining a leader in physical infrastructural development, Akwa Ibom has become a leading destination for Foreign Direct Investments in Nigeria. With 18 industrial concerns and still counting; over 1,700 kilometres of economic roads; several world-class secondary healthcare facilities, sustained free education up to senior secondary school level, and yearly payment of over N600 million as WASCE fees for indigenes, the state has attained a new height in socio-economic development. Other notable key performance indicators include free medical services for children, pregnant women and the aged in public hospitals; unrivalled empowerment of youths and women folk. To cap it all, Akwa Ibom state opened a new vista in the annals of history, becoming the ﬁrst state in Nigeria and possibly the African continent to own a full-ﬂedged commercial airline. Ibom Air has not entered the Nigerian airspace as another ‘also-ran brand’ but as a game changer that is redeﬁning aviation travels in Nigeria. With a ﬂeet of what is arguably the most modern aircraft in the Nigerian commercial airspace, the airline has become the toast of domestic air travelers with an ‘on-time, every-time’ schedule of operations, adhering to international standards and best practices in safety and customer experience. Despite the armada of jaw-dropping achievements recorded by the current administration, the Akwa Ibom story today will not be complete if we fail to acknowledge, loud and clear, the doggedness and passion with which Governor Udom Emmanuel has successful led the people of the only state on planet earth named after God; the ‘AkwaAbasi Ibom’ back to God. No man can play God anymore, as all thanksgiving, praises and adoration go to the ONLY GOD. An infectious new wave of enterprise and oneness currently pervades the state, as Akwa Ibomites are becoming increasingly united in one accord and in pursuit of a new social order where selﬁsh and myopic political interests are relegated to the back seat in the vehicle of state building. A common denominator is the fact that there is a general consensus that the choice of Mr. Udom Emmanuel as Governor in 2015 and again in 2019 was divinely ordained, and ONLY GOD has kept us and sustained the unprecedented successes we are witnessing. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 