The Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem has lauded the ingenuity of the Management and Staff of Ibom Entrepreneurs Forum for their entrepreneurial capability to fabricate skills acquisition equipment and production of consumable items made in Akwa Ibom state. Dr. Ekuwem made the commendation when he undertook official visit to the corporate office of the Made in Akwa Ibom Industrial Hub and Training Centre along Aka-Nung Udoe Road and the Centre’s Showroom on Oron Road in Uyo Local Government Area. Dr. Ekuwem, who was accompanied on the visit by the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Marketing and Brand Management, Mr Ime Uwah and the Special Assistant on Entrepreneurial Development, MefLyn Anwana , said the products on display at the showroom were good and deserve the establishment of industrial equipment to do the work with a view to attracting major capitalists to the State to establish industries that will complement the effort of the Centre in the manufacturing of indigenous goods for exportation outside the shores of Nigeria. The State Chief Scribe noted with delight that the bold steps taken by the present Administration in the State to build capacity and encourage our youths to have entrepreneurial spirit and the challenge to rise to the faith of greatness through the “Dakkada Philosophy”, have inspired the staff of Ibom Entrepreneurs Forum to achieve the feat they have recorded in the State. He noted that individuals and corporate companies who have the capital to invest in the business here in Uyo and beyond, will have equity shares that will make them shareholders in the business. Welcoming the SSG to the showroom, the Head of the Made in Akwa Ibom Industrial Hub and Training Centre, Mr. Collins Oscar informed Dr. Ekuwem that the training centre and the showroom are managed by the Ibom Entrepreneurs Forum made up of over two hundred young Akwa Ibom Entrepreneurs who are either producers or manufacturers and service providers. Mr. Oscar took the SSG round the showroom and showed him diverse range of innovative and indigenous products processed, produced and packaged in Akwa Ibom State. These include food, drinks, cakes, confectionaries, skincare and haircare. Others are clothing, craft work, stationeries and beauty products, among others. He solicited for assistance from the State Government to enable them surmount some of the challenges faced by the training centre. Press Unit
SSG’s Office
28-2-2020 Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 