By Meflyn Anwana Nigeria has a sizeable human capacity with an estimated population of 195 million. 70% of this population are in youth demography. Also, The Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) has empirically identified Nigeria as one of the most entrepreneurial countries in the world. The investigation demonstrated that thirty-five out of each hundred Nigerians (over a third) is into entrepreneurial activities. Therefore, it is imperative not to evaluate entrepreneurship and innovation alone but also to assess the practice and its role in fostering economic growth and development. Today I present to you e-commerce as a vehicle for increased revenue,
Expansion into the global markets, a raise in the gdp index of Nigeria and IGR of states across the Federation. Today e-commerce sits pretty  as a tool for The entrepreneur, the innovator, and a tool for small business owners and when you look at what is going on in developed nations  with Amazon, AliBaba, flipkart, urban ladder
The make my trips etc., you will agree with me what blue-collar and white-collar employment opportunities  such as corporate communication, logistics, analytics, marketing , pricing, inventory management, transportation, and last-mile delivery adds to the socio- economic growth of our society. It is therefore positional that what you do with what you have today is what will shape the economic life of our country and contribute to the amelioration of our society. E-commerce Impacts largely on businesses in any nation and can raise their productivity rate across the value chain as they deliver products and services to millions of customers through B2B, B2C and B2G at competitive prices. Technology applications such as mobile internet, cloud computing, verifiable digital identity, e-marketing, intelligent transportation and distribution, digital payments, knowledge automation and many other applications have brought substantial economic and strategic benefits and so we must take advantage of it. Clearly, Governor Udom Emmanuel is committed to Human Capacity Development and that is why the My Entrepreneurship Goal Program sits positionally to empower and raise a knowledge based & entrepreneurial economy. We have great entrepreneurs in Akwa Ibom State and we believe as a people just as we say in our Dakkada Creed, that we can all rise to the faith of our resources both human and intellectual. MEGP Programme  offers a wide range of training programs that captures Information, Communication and Technology Skills as well as Creative Industry Skills. Therefore I want to use this opportunity to urge you to take advantage of the opportunity given for self-development. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 