… As Health Stakeholders Task Business Owners on Healthcare The National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) has commended  Gov Udom Emmanuel for his backing on the Akwa Ibom State Health Insurance Bill, which will soon receive his executive assent. Speaking in Uyo, Friday February 28, the Akwa Ibom State coordinator of NHIS, Mr Ononokpon Emmanuel, extolled the governor for supporting the domestication of national health insurance in the state, a move he said is greatly appreciated by the NHIS office. The NHIS officer who spoke at the February 2020 edition of Dakkada Networking Experience, said, “the governor of Akwa Ibom State, Mr Udom Emmanuel is about to sign the state health insurance bill into law and it is supported by us. This is a good development.” At the event, issues in the interplay of healthcare and business in pursuit of sustainable development in Akwa Ibom State, were addressed by medical stakeholders who attended the monthly converge of key players in various sectors of economy, where business owners were tasked on healthcare concerns for maximum productivity. The event which focused on the theme; Healthcare: It’s Effect on Business Growth and Sustainable Development, had some medical experts speak on the necessity of business owners in the state to take seriously their health concerns, positing that the health status of every businessman has direct effect on his business, likewise his business having significant effect on his health. The moderator at the interactive session, Dr. Imaobong Akpan, from the University of Uyo Teaching Hospital, noted that health and business development affects each other as business owners constantly need medicare to function well in their businesses in the state. Speaking on health insurance and business development, the state coordinator of NHIS, Mr Emmanuel, explained that the amount spent by business owners on medicare can be reduced by the annual subscription to the NHIS services at affordable rate. He encouraged Akwa Ibom entrepreneurs to get insured on healthcare, adding that subscribers can get free medicare anywhere in the country. On healthy living, Dr. S. B. Udoh, of the department of Family Health, University of Uyo, admonished Akwa Ibom entrepreneurs to develop healthy lifestyle, by adoption simple living, regular medical checkups and exercises, which he said will aid sound mind and greater ability to grow businesses and on the long run, contributing to sustainable development in the state. High point of the event was the induction of new members into the Dakkada Business & Leadership Forum, where Dr. S. B. Udo, Mr. Ononokpon Emmanuel and Dr. Imaobong Akpan, joined the league. The event also featured interactions between resource persons and participants. In attendance was the Senior Special Assistant to the governor on Marketing & Brand Management, Mr. Ime Uwah, the Special Assistant on Entrepreneurial Development, Mrs Meflyn Anwana, entrepreneurs and some health stakeholders. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 