The Deputy Chairman, Communications Committee of the House of Representatives, Hon. Unyime Idem has warned the Federal Government on the severe implications that the recent visa ban by the USA will have on the socio economic status of Nigeria if nothing is done urgently to correct the infractions. Hon. Idem made this point while contributing on the floor of the Green Chambers following a motion brought before it on the need to unveil the circumstances that led to the visa restriction on Nigeria. He said given the fact that many Nigerians have business, families and other relationships in the USA, this restriction will impact negatively on them and may lead to some damages. “It is sad that we have found ourselves in such situation. Nigeria is a strategic partner of the US, hence should not be caught off guard on sensitive issues as this. If allowed to continue, the visa restriction is bound to affect investment and growth in the country and those who will be affected are the most vulnerable people in Nigeria. Those with families and businesses over there will be affected. On the whole, the socio-economic life of Nigeria will be worse hit. We must urgently set machineries in place to reverse this anomaly” He added that it is important that relevant agencies of government live up to their responsibilities and save the nation from further embarrassment. “It is important for relevant government agencies to take serious their responsibilities to Nigerians. The visa restriction could have been avoided but for the fact that agencies in charge failed in their duties to do the needful. The nonchalant attitudes of some agencies of government should not be overlooked because what causes any Nigerian sleep should be of utmost interest to us” The member representing Ukanafun/Oruk Anam Federal Constituency therefore urged the Executive Arm of Government to explore all available options to resolve the visa restriction on Nigeria by the United States of America. The motion which also sought for a quick resolution and steps to forestall any future reoccurrence was sponsored by Hon. Tajudeen Yusuf, who in leading the debate, noted that relevant Nigerian agencies were unable to meet the deadline on critical and adequate data gathering and sharing on very important issues such as public safety, which he said led to the ban. Other Members of the House who also debated on the motion expressed dismay that Government had two years to comply with the requisite criteria but failed to do so. The House among other resolutions mandated the Committee on Foreign Affairs to investigate the issue and report to the House for further legislative action. The motion after extensive debate by Members was voted on and passed. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 