By Amadie Akpabio, Uyo As part of efforts to secure viable laws and regulations to cater for the challenges of the urban and regional planning in Akwa Ibom State, the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly through its Committee on Lands and Housing, headed by Rt. Hon. Udo Kierian Akpan has reiterated the commitment of the Assembly to ensure that Urban and Town Planning law is reconsidered and passed into law. The Bill titled “A bill for a Law to Provide for the Control of Physical/Urban and Regional Planning Activities, the Establishment of Urban Regional Planning Agency and Area Planning Authorities in Akwa Ibom State” was passed into law in the 6th Assembly but unfortunately returned in the 7th Assembly. The lead sponsor of the Bill, Rt. Hon. Udo Kierian Akpan who is the House Leader and Member Representing Oruk Anam State Constituency assured participants at a Stakeholders meeting in Uyo that the Bill will pass through a rapid legislative procedure for possible passage into law. Sir Kierian while addressing stakeholders at the meeting today, January 5th, 2020 in the conference room at the Assembly Complex urged participants to be duty ready to enable the speedy passage of the Bill.
“There was a similar meeting in the 6th Assembly attempting to deal with the review of the state laws bordering on Land, Housing and Property Development in Akwa Ibom State but unfortunately after the passage of the Bill, by reason of omission it was not presented to the Governor on time which the law has stated the required number of months upon which the Governor has to grant assent to the Bill to become a law, which on failing the entire process will have to take its course again.” He noted. Describing the failure of the Bill to be presented to the Governor as unfortunate, He maintained that the incident was a plus for the State.
According to him considering certain clauses in the law, if the Governor had assented to the Bill, it could have run parallel with other existing laws, which may have led to conflict in the state. He appealed to all stakeholders to cooperate with the committee for a smooth deliberation in order to fast track the passage of the bill. “I called on you today as stakeholders because I believe firmly that if at this level we can agree or point out those grey areas to each of the practitioners in the industry, we can find a level ground where relevant stakeholders can agree instead of going back for a second hearing. We can deal with this matter at this level in order to get this law passed within the shortest possible time. “But if the stakeholders choose to subject themselves to another public hearing by the way of this law, then as committee members, we don’t have a choice than to abide asking if that was the resolve by the stakeholders.” He added. Earlier, the House leader applauded the chairman, Uyo Capital City Development Authority ( UCCDA) Hon. Enobong Uwah for responding to the committee while urging other relevant stakeholders and members of the committee to move on a fast lane towards securing a better future for Uyo to fit into the world practice of Urban and Regional Planning. According to the structure of the bill, part 1 and 2 seeks the establishment of the state planning agency, while part 3 seeks the establishment of local government authority agency.
Part 4 of the bill deals with the procedure and activities of the agency and part 5 seeks to address the areas of modus operandi, the roles, and regulations of the agency among others.
The lawmaker also stated that the bill if passed into law will check and control public property and prevent building collapse in the state. Ministries, Agencies and their representatives present at the meeting were; Nigeria Institute of Quantity Surveyors, (NIQS) Nigeria Institute of Engineers ( NIE), Nigeria Institute of Architect (NIA), Nigeria Institute of Estate Valuers (NIEV) UCCDA among others Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 