Press Statement It would be recalled that on Thursday, December 19, 2019, the
Governor of Akwa Ibom State, His Excellency, Mr. Udom Emmanuel in a
grand ceremony flagged off the reconstruction of Ibom Science Park,
renamed lbom Blue sea science and Technology Park.The lbom Blue sea Science and Technology Park is designed to be a
scientific and technological incubation hub in the State, the Nation and
beyond and will offer meaningful engagements and employment to our
teeming youths who desire a veritable platform to exhibit their creativity. The Governor at that event assured Akwa Ibom people and critical
stakeholders in the project that the State Government will discharge its
commitment to ensuring timely completion of the project. However, the Hon. Commissioner, Ministry of Science and Technology,
Akwa Ibom State, the supervising Ministry of the project, Dr. Iniobong E
Essien on behalf of the State Government hereby brings to the attention of
the good people of Akwa Ibom State and the general public that the actual
commencement of work on the project has been delayed following the
recent outbreak of a global epidemic known as Coronavirus disease
(COVID-19) in Wuhan, Hubei Province of China late last year. It is worthy to note that the project is to be executed under a Public
Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement between the State Government and
the Blue Sea International holdings Limited of China.The core personnel to drive the project dispatched to the State who went
for new year vacation with the work plan to return to the State by second
week of February this year to start work on the site in earnest could not
return as they were caught in the web of travel restrictions placed on China
and her people around the globe occasioned by the global epidemic,
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19).Consequently, it only logically follows that due to this unexpected
development, work on the project had to be put on hold while waiting for a
medical breakthrough that will ameliorate the present spread of the viral
infection and turn things around soon. We are in constant touch with the management of the Chinese Firm and
they have affirmed their readiness to commence work at the site as soon
as coVID-19 has abated and travel restrictions lifted. We therefore call on Akwa Ibom people and indeed the general public to
continue to keep faith with the Completion Agenda of Governor Udom
Emmanuel led administration, especially in his untiring effort to make science and technology the driving tool for our industrialisation.
The Ibom Blue Sea Science and Technology Park is work in progress. Sgd Joseph Robert
Chief Information Officer
For: Hon. Commissioner Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 