By Iniubong ANAKO In his avowed commitment to improving the infrastructural landscape of Akwa Ibom State, the state governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel, in 2019, flagged-off the construction of an ultra-modern flyover at the Ikot Oku Ikono- Ekom Iman axis of the state. The construction which is nearing completion will ease traffic flow in the area as well as eliminate traffic accidents. Until Governor Udom Emmanuel assumed power, the Ekom Iman junction was a nightmare for commuters.
As a major gateway for commuters into Uyo capital city, the junction’s mini-roundabout was not ideal. Without exaggeration, countless souls were lost on a daily basis. Today, the governor through a vibrant Works Ministry headed by Akparawa Ephraim Inyangeyen, has put an end to that sad chapter. The Udom Emmanuel administration has provided Akwa Ibom people with well-constructed, functional and aesthetically finished roads along with requisite infrastructure, efficient water supply, a functional educational system, a creative and dependable healthcare delivery system, security of lives and property as well as massive progress he has made in the areas of agricultural and agro-allied industry with yet more to come. He has done all these as he had indeed promised the people of the state before he was voted into office. It is, however, in the upgrade of basic infrastructure across that the Governor has really distinguished himself as a leader with a mission. Infrastructure development is key to achieving human capital development in any society. The economic impact that infrastructure improvement has on nation-building cannot be over-emphasized. It is, therefore, in the realization of this that the Udom administration has made road construction a major part of its developmental agenda. It is also pertinent to state that there were other projects prior to 2015 inherited by administration that were also continued and at various levels of completion. These are iconic infrastructure projects that had to be completed because of the derivable socio-economic benefits to the citizenry and enhancing the beauty of the Akwa Ibom people. The completed projects have been able to impact positively on the life of residents including addressing traffic gridlock, reduce time travel and improve road connectivity within Akwa Ibom; abate flooding, general improvement in the socio-economic activities of the state; improvement in health care service deliveries within the state as well as urbanization of rural areas within the state. The state government of Akwa Ibom State has so far completed over 2000 kilometres of roads and 35 bridges across the urban and rural areas of the state. Currently, 57 roads are nearing completion across the state. The state plans to undertake the construction of more strategic roads and bridges to alleviate the problem caused by traffic gridlock and open up rural areas to increase the economic activities. No doubt, Governor Emmanuel’s administration has excelled in the area of infrastructural renewal. Within a period of five years, nearly every area of the State has felt his Midas touch. To a large extent, the State government is firmly on track with its development plan. Kudos to the erudite and efficient Works Commissioner, Ephraim Inyang, for implementing the governor’s midas touch in upgrading infrastructures in the state. He is indeed a through-bred vision interpreter. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 