Want unit for your prepaid & postpaid meter?buy online via BuyPower.Ng Dashing out of the house or office to pay bills at the nearest PHCN office is exhausting due to our tight schedules. Have you ever had the experience of going to pay electricity bills on weekends, but end up not paying, because of the long queue, you go home?  Guess What? As a reaction to the afore-stated mishap, a platform has been created where electricity units can be purchased online with buypower.ng or buypower App. Buypower has created an avenue where the prepaid meter can be conveniently recharged using a computer or smartphone. BuyPower.Ng is a Nigerian online utility platform founded by Ojima Benjamin Ufaruna. BuyPower.Ng render online payment services. With their platform you can perform numerous functions like paying for bills /purchase electricity units. payment can be done by card, instant transfers,bank transfers, USSD code. With BuyPower.Ng you can as well buy electricity unit for your friends and live ones. You might ask “how is this possible?” please read on to find out how. With your Internet smartphones connected to the Internet you can seamlessly purchase units for your prepaid meter without stressing yourself visiting the nearest PHCN office. This saves you stress, time and resources. BuyPower.Ng now has a mobile app that is downloadable on Google play store with just a single click. The app connects you to their server or alternatively you can visit the official site however making use of their app is the smartest and most easiest way for me. Simply Getting electricity token for your home, office, friend or relatives? Everything is now more easier, all you have to do is to follow the steps below : Don’t have money to pay for your electricity bills? Don’t worry with BuyPower.Ng and their new payment feature recently launched ; you now borrow and pay whenever you have the money to pay or before your next recharge. BuyPower.Ng is now partnering with kwikmoney. What this means is that you can access loan from kwikmoney from which you can buy your units from BuyPower.Ng . Sounds great right? Please note that the pay with a kwikmoney loan’ option is only available for eligible customers, if you are eligible you will get to find out on the dashboard when you login.