Five Beautiful Places You Must Visit In After Covid-19 Pandemic It is no doubt that the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic is having huge negative impacts on tourism sector as many tourists are forced to stay home in order to prevent the spread of the disease. Luckily, situation is getting better as some countries are beginning to ease lockdown and economies are beginning to reopen after a couple of months. Here in Nigeria, the federal government, has already given worship centers and companies the green light to reopen—albeit, in a small scale measures. This means it won’t be long that tourists would get the permission to begin their normal and initial way of life. This is why we have taken our time to come up with five most beautiful Nigeria cities you must visit as soon the lockdown is completely lifted.  First on my list is the highly-rated Obudu Mountain Resort, which is located in Calabar, Cross-river State. Formerly known as Obudu Cattle Ranch, this is one of the most visited tourist attractions in the country. The reason for the influx of tourists into the resort isn’t far fetched — it is as results of the possession of gorgeous-looking landscape; wonderful and beautiful buildings; and interesting atmosphere. Obudu resort is opened to all visitors at any time, but tourists are advised to visit the resort within October and February in order to enjoy awesome weather and atmospheric conditions.  Located in Osogbo, Osun state, the Osun Sacred Grove is closely behind the Obudu resort in my list as it is often referred to as one of UNESCO’s world heritage rites. As a tourist seeking for where to explore for the first time since the outbreak of the Coronavirus pandemic, the Osun Sacred Grove is a perfect place for you as it provides you with the chance to take a good and close look at more than 400 plants which possess massive healing potentials. Less I forgot, this tourist attraction is situated close to the Osun River. Hence, it is often described as the home of Osun goddess. Ranked among the list of top tourist attractions in Nigeria, the Osun Sacred Grove is one place you can’t afford to ignore as a Nigerian tourist.  Yankari Game Reserve, located in Bauchi state, is another one-stop tourist attraction you should explore as soon as you return to your normal and initial lifestyle. Take a picture of the good-looking environment, large elephants and other lovely creatures. Allow your kids to participate in countless fun-filled activities taking place in the reserve, while you engage in a guided safari tour. Despite the whole lot of events taking place in this tourist center, you won’t have to return to your home cashless because the entry fee is extremely affordable. Some call it “Erin Ijesha Waterfall” while others know it as Olumirin waterfall as they named it after a popular deity in the state known as Olumirin. Whichever name you know it to be, the fact is that that you’re heading to Osogbo in Osun State to have a view of the awesome tourist attraction. The two most important features of the Erin Ijesha waterfall remains the possession of seven floors and its ever-flowing water that is believed to have massive healing powers.  The ever beautiful and attractive Olumo rock in Abeokuta Ogun state should also be in your list of places to visit post pandemic. The rock has being in existence since the 19th century as it served as shield for the people of Egba during olden days wars. It is time you take your children to see the rock they’ve read so much about in school. Conclusion You could be wondering why some tourist attractions in the northern part of the country are left out of the list, it is as the result of the current fragile security status of the region as we wouldn’t want anyone to risk his or her life. It is equally important you remember that we are limiting ourselves to just five. Welcome to zumi.ng ;
Ikechukwu I write for zumi.ng, I am a University graduate, and holds a degree in Mass communication from Abia state University.