See GTBank Customer Care you can Resolve Your Complaints as fast as possible (Lines & Email) Entailed below is vast information about customer care hotlines giving you the ability to interact with the representatives and resolve complaints. Banking with GuarantyTrust Bank comes with the need to make inquiries or complaints about a particular product or service. When this turns out to be, the opportunity to visit the nearest branch might not be available. This is where customer service is required. The Guaranty Trust Bank ensures its customers get the best banking experience by utilizing its services or products thus providing its customers with the online customer service to connect with them at any time of the day.  Complaints and inquiries made by a customer during an interactive session with a customer care representative are gathered by the bank to improve its services. Requirements To Resolve a Complaint There are certain requirements of a customer to acquire quick and efficient customer service. GTBank Customer Care Lines Interaction with Guaranty Trust Bank customer care representatives requires either the telephone or mobile channel. Telephone Channel To connect with a customer care representative through the telephone (fax). Dial the number 01 448 000 For complaints and inquiries. Mobile Channel For android, iOS, iPad, tablet users, the customer care numbers are 0700 0482 6663 28 080 2900 2900 080 3900 3900 Benefits of the Customer Service Speed of a Care Representative to Resolve Complaints? The average time needed to process a customer complaint is 2minutes. This proves the commitment of the Guaranty Trust Bank to its customers. When Can I Call Customer Care Lines? GTBank customer care lines can be called at any time of the day. Called all customer care lines but none is available. What could be the problem? Check if you have airtime(not bonus). If not, the representative cannot be reached If the problem persists, check your network signal. Change your location or upgrade your sim. A customer care representative called and asked for my card and bank details. What do I do? 60% of persons must have experienced this at some point. If you get a call to send your card number, PIN, CVV, and others. Do not give out these details. This method is used by scammers to clear your bank accounts. Moreover, no customer care representative will call you first or request for the above details. Act carefully, to avoid loss.