NDLEA recruitment is here again. In this article You will see how to apply for National Drugs Law and Enforcement Agency at www.ndlea.gov.ng/careers/. The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency recruits Nigerian citizens within the age of 18 -30 years. The agency was established 30 years ago and deals with eliminating the import and export of illegal drugs, the manufacture, the transfer, the planting and sale.  Working in the agency has some benefits which are listed below; Note: -Selected candidates will undergo a random drug test throughout service in the agency. -Applying for posts of lawyers and doctors will require a professional certificate plus the normal educational certificate. Filling of the application form twice will not be condoned and might lead to termination. No fee is required to go through the recruiting process. To be eligible for any job openings at NDLEA, you must have the documents listed below; The agency is semi-military and the salary structure is based on ranks and levels. The structure is determined by the Consolidated Paramilitary Salary Structure(CONPASS), and officers are paid according to grade levels which helps to differentiate workers at the same level and importantly, promote order. The salary structure also depends on the level of education of each officer. *Grade Level 8 is for Graduates and B.Sc holder; Step 1– Monthly salary is N74,000 without accommodation and this will result in about N888,965 per annum. Step 2– Monthly salary is N75,000 without accommodation and this will result in about N900,071 per annum. *Grade Level 7 is for HND holder. Step 1- salary is about N483,353 per year. Candidates who fill the application form correctly and are qualified will be eligible to take a virtual aptitude quiz. Selected applicants will get a personal ID number for the quiz. Shortlisted applicants. The list will be out after a thorough application process and selected candidates will be invited for an interview. Candidates will have to check for the details of the interview on the official website www.ndlea.gov.ng. It is necessary to get the printout of the interview as it will contain the schedule, time and venue if the interview. Shortlisted candidates will be subjected to various test by a medical officer from a government clinic to ascertain the good physical and mental well being before final selection. Candidates must be of good behaviour and character and must not be a convict of any crimes except for maybe road traffic offence. In addition, candidates must be free of any problem related to bankruptcy and insolvency. It will be required of each candidate to download 2 referee forms from the site which must be filled by people with respectable status in the society. What NDLEA Does a. Eradicate illicit drugs b. Recovery of illegal wealth made through hard drugs trading. c.Apprehend when necessary and hand over drug dealers to police. d. Defend and maintain the image of Nigeria here and around the world. The Vision To become the most proactive and leading agency on the African continent and one of the best worldwide by providing efficient services to Nigerians by reducing the supply of illegal drugs and lessening the demand of other illicit substances. The NDLEA officers are always present in places where citizens and non-citizens immigrate and emigrate out of the country; places like the airports, sea harbours and border crossing. To apply for any job in this agency, you’ll have to eligible and qualified for the positions. Below are the requirements and eligibility; Conclusion Recruitment for NDLEA is a straight and simple process that candidates can through without stress. Following the procedure listed above and adhering to all instruction will ensure a safe and great recruiting process. The agency has made room to accommodate graduate and HND holders in need of jobs in this country, it is up to you to make the most of it and increase your income.