CBN Recruitment 2020 process is already here . Here is the Central Bank of Nigeria Recruitment 2020 application form Online or Register via Central Bank of Nigeria Application portal now.. Recruitment is free of charge Every year, the Central Bank Of Nigeria(CBN) hire citizens within the age of 22-30 years. CBN was founded in 1958 but started operating in 1959.  It is a government-owned bank and its headquarters is located at Abuja. It was established to serve the nation by providing price stability and to oversee the nation’s money reserve. Before applying for any jobs in the Central Bank Of Nigeria, candidates must have the below requirements There are some special skills that can give a candidate an edge over the others. They are self-confidence, adaptability, good communication skills, determination, and political training. Some substantial skills are also needed to get a job at the central bank. These skills include Accountancy, Law, Banking and Finance, Sociology, Statistics, Computer science, Economics and Business Administration. It should be noted that all credentials must be scanned and save on a single PDF or word document that is not more than 23Kb and the letter of application must be saved on a document not less than 100kb. Moreover while filling the application form, you should try as much as possible to fill all spaces and not leave any gap unfilled. After a thorough application process, the list of shortlisted applicants will be out. These applicants will be invited for an interview and to take an aptitude quiz. However, if your name isn’t on the list, you’ll be asked to partake in the physical exercise and documentation. Shortlisted candidates would be invited to write tests and there will be an orientation about what the central bank is all about and its role in the country. After this, the panel interview will come in followed by a final interview with the head of the human resources department. -The recruitment is based solely on merit and credibility. The selection of applicants is a free and fair affair so there will be no room for cheating. The Mission The Central Bank Of Nigeria hopes to provide stable growth and development for the Nigerian economy through productive execution of monetary and exchange rate policy and management of the financial sector. The Vision. To be the model central bank that gives financial stability and enhances sustainable development. 1) Early payment of salaries. 2) Conducive environment to work. 3) You get free lunches. 4) You get to enhance your personal growth while working. 5) Teamwork and cooperation. 6) Self-development 7) You will get to expand your horizon while working. 8) You will meet people and make good connections. 9)You will get a good working experience. 10) Division of labour is provided. Conclusion. Recruitment into The Central Bank Of Nigeria is not a difficult task and it isn’t an expensive action to carry out. You only need your skills and credential. Then, you can get what you want. It is also important you take heed of the instructions given above as this will eliminate any challenges you might encounter during your application process. Also, be sure of the kind of job you really want to apply for before starting the recruitment process as this might lead to confusion when you see numerous job openings.