Rosabon Financial Services Provides Personal Loan Service Nationwide Rosabon is a financial company licensed by the central bank of Nigeria to carry out financial services They offer non-collateralised loans and collateralised loans and also offers investment plans, and leasing services. Passionate about education, every year Rosabon engage in social services that target low income families on assistance with school supplies. They also assist primary, secondary, and tertiary low-interest tuition loans from which the repayment plan is on monthly basis.  A declaration for an extension of Rosanna financial loan services was assigned by this financial intermediary firm to the various state within Nigeria on Thursday, February 9, 2012. This package was previously enjoyed by only clients within Lagos and Port harcourt with employers and salary earners as its target. In the address of Mr. Isikiwe the Head of the Corporate Venturing Department at Rosabon affirms that the reason behind this venture stemmed from the positive feedback they have gathered from its client owing to the measures that have been enforced towards improving their customer support. This innovation is triggered by the high quest for our services in other parts of the country aside Port harcourt and Lagos, and the good news of its service shared between their client and counterpart from other parts of the country, hence the name “Up Country” because we intend taking our service globally. At the moment, this package is reserved for only bank employees with a limit of #500,000 and a refundable period between 6-8 months. To this effect, Rosabon has made it a priority to render quality service to its clients by exhaustively exploring technological and convenient logistics. In a view to buttressing this innovation, Mr. Chukwuma Ochonogor who is the Chief Operating Officer of Rosabon Financial Service added that processes that guarantee a swift completion of the transaction have been implemented and unlike other service providers you don’t need to have an account before you are eligible to access their loan. Finally, in conjunction with Corporate Venturing Limited, random financial services, aside personal loan renders corporate services such as treasury and Lease.