In this article, you’ll learn about the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) recruitment starting or opening date, application skills, requirements and qualifications. Interested applicant should follow the lead outline below for successful application. The National Intelligence Agency (NIA) is one of Nigeria’s three security services established under the office of the coordinator of National Security.  This agency was created during the first national address of President Babangida in June 1986 with their major responsibilities as counterintelligence and foreign intelligence collection operations, focusing on external threats to Nigerian national interest. To be qualified for the NIA recruitment process, you need to have the following requirements: Visit the official NIA site www.nationalintelligenceagency.gov.ng Input email address and password to create an and verify your email through the confirmation link which will be sent to your email Fill the forms correctly Upload all required documents and submit your application form Print out your confirmation slip, this is usually sent your email and is required during the screening. After the online registration process, the selected candidates would be notified via their email and names would be published on the agency’s website. Shortlisted candidates would be required to undergo a medical fitness test from a government or military hospital to ascertain the physical and health stability of the candidate before the final selection. Candidates would be required to be free of theft and bankruptcy cases, and are not convicts of criminal cases. Finally, candidates are required to download the referee forms which are to be duly filled by reputable people in the society. The average salary earned by new entry graduate employees of NIA is between ₦ 160,000 – ₦165,000 per month after tax. NIA employees are usually entitled to several allowances, gratuity, and pension from the Federal Government of Nigeria. As NIA staff, you tend to get more vacation than those in the private sector. Salaries are paid on time irrespective of being on leave or not and workers are not scared of the agency going into bankruptcy that their salaries are being affected as funds are directly from the federal government. Note: Candidates are to apply for one job position, Candidates who attempt to apply multiple times will have their application disqualified Computer literacy and conversant with digital technologies and applications like Microsoft word (MS-word), Microsoft Excel (MS-Excel), internet usage, and web applications for effective delivery of service are required. The online application is free. Do not pay any agent to be enrolled. As an Intelligence professional you may work in several areas of the Agency. After joining the NIA, the units’ needs and the number of staff depends greatly on the capacity of the security interests at hand. NIA takes responsibility for acquiring timely intelligence from the external intelligence agencies located worldwide to enhance the national foreign policy, effective governance, and national development. Every country in the world has its intelligence agency. Like America has the CIA which is the world’s leading intelligence agency, Russia has a GRU, Britain has MI5, and so on. The NIA (Nigeria) has many positions which are the Administrative Staff, Intelligence Officer, Intelligence Technical Officer, Intelligence Agent, and Technical Intelligence Agent. The first two are upper level and the last two are mid-level To become one of the best intelligence agencies in the world to safeguard national security interests. The main objective of the NIA recruitment exercise is to generate more employment opportunities for Nigerian youths through the creation of more jobs. In doing so, the unemployment rate in Nigeria will be reduced to the barest minimum, and also to train and produce skilled professionals in the intelligence agency. Conclusion NIA is open for fresh graduates from both universities, polytechnics, and colleges of education. The recruitment into the NIA is a free and straight process. Adhering to the instructions and providing all the necessary genuine documents and information would lead to a safe landing into the agency.